# Item Scale

Every item has a scale that describes the general size of the item:
pocket scale, handheld scale, portable scale, human scale, furniture
scale, room scale, and building scale. In general, it's easy enough to
determine the scale of most items, but for some items a scale is
explicitly listed in the lists that follow.

The scale concept is used in the optional rules for Encumbrance, later
in this chapter, as well as for clockwork devices <a href="#clockworks-2" class="xref-inchapter-under">Clockworks</a> 
and animals <a href="#animals" class="xref-inchapter">Animals</a>.

## Pocket Scale

A pocket-scale device is light, easily concealed, requires only one hand
to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing
without attracting undue notice. Examples include small pistols or
knives, flasks of alchemical brews, and a pet mouse. 

Weapons of this size are classified as Either Hand weapons.

## Handheld Scale

A handheld item usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried
on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Most can't be easily
concealed unless you're willing to forego easy access. Examples include
most swords, tool kits, bucklers, and large hats.

When describing animals, such as cats or small dogs, handheld scale is
known as pet scale. Weapons of this size are classified as Main Hand
weapons.

## Portable Scale

A portable-scale item is one which requires two hands to carry and
operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Examples include
two-handed swords, muskets, and bar stools.

The equivalent scale for animals is companion scale. A portable-scale
weapon is classified a Both Hands weapon.

## Human Scale

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue or a suit of
rigid armor – can't be easily carried by a single person without
requiring her full attention. Other examples include work carts, heavy
chairs, and velocipedes.

## Furniture Scale

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, a carriage-scale item is
around the size of a bed, a wardrobe dresser, or a small carriage. At
best, an adult human can drag a furniture-scale item around but can't
pick it up. Other furniture-scale items are horses, rowboats, and
thrones.

In descriptions of animals, furniture scale is known as mount scale.

## Room Scale

Room-scale items can be rooms themselves, the amount of furnishings it
takes to fill up a room, or an object of comparable size. In combat,
each room-scale item is usually its own Area.

Mammoth scale is the equivalent of room scale when describing animals.

## Building Scale

Building-scale items include buildings, of course, but also large
vehicles such as sailing ships or airships. In combat situations, a
building-scale object is usually divided into multiple Areas.

When talking about animals this large, such as giant squids or great
whales, the term behemoth scale is used.
