{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 System Reference Document\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a listing of the game material available under a CreativeCommons CC-BY-4.0 license.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Credits\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Game Designer\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Caoimhe Ora Snow\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Editing\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Kristine Chester, Caoimhe Ora Snow\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Licenses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This describes the licenses that apply to {\i The Queen\u8217's Cavaliers}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Game Mechanics License\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The game mechanics are licensed under {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Quickstart Rules\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 How to Play\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each player creates a player character (PC).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Gamemaster creates the rest of the world, playing out the characters, groups, and natural environment that challenge the player characters and provide the backdrop for them to spin their own story. Dramatic conflicts, such as feats of derring-do or swordfights, are resolved by each side rolling dice to determine success.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To play, you will need a copy of the Character Sheet and Combat Tracker for each PC, and a number of six-sided, eight-sided, ten-sided, and twelve-sided dice \u8211- six of each are recommended. You\u8217'll also need some sort of tokens such as glass beads or small coins to track each PC\u8217's status if a fight breaks out. Pencils, paper, and note cards (3x5 or similar) are useful too.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Creating a Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Creating a player character takes about 30 minutes to an hour, and can be done by the players separately before the game, or at the first game session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For players:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before beginning to make choices and fill in the character sheet, think about what kind of character you\u8217'd like to make. Read over the background information and the classes, and have a concept in mind, as that can help you make decisions as you go through the character creation process.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you create your character, you\u8217'll be able to decide what she\u8217's good at \u8211- is she primarily a swordfighter or a negotiator? A cunning sneak or a bold ideologue? You\u8217'll want to remember that while this is a game with romance, intrigue, and diplomacy, it\u8217's also primarily a swashbuckling game \u8211- so you should also make sure your character can defend herself in a fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For the Gamemaster:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Tell your players a little about the type of stories that you\u8217'd like to tell, and if there are any particularly appropriate concepts or personality types that will work best in the scenarios you have planned, you can suggest those as well. However, don\u8217't be afraid to just let the players\u8217' creativity and imaginations run wild.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each character is described by three Attributes that describe her basic strengths and weaknesses, as well as how she approaches life. Those Attributes are Verve, Affinity, and Guile, and they are rated either D6, D8, or D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A D10 in an Attribute indicates a high rating in that Attribute, while a D6 indicates a low score and D8 is average. During the character creation process, you get to choose one Attribute at D10, one at D8, and one at D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Verve\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character\u8217's Verve score measures her youthful exuberance, her gusto and gumption, her joie de vivre. Characters with a high Verve are aggressive in combat and off the battlefield as well, and usually favor a direct, brute-force approach to solving problems. Skill specialties related to Verve include Brawl, Lunge, Parry, Inspire, and Perceive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Affinity\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Affinity is your character\u8217's ability to grasp how the world operates, both people and objects. Affinity includes a degree of intuition and natural ability at skills; characters with high Affinity are often builders, healers, or preservers. Aim, Treat, Intuition, Negotiate, and Husbandry are examples of Affinity skill specialties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Guile\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character\u8217's ability to think outside of the box is represented by her Guile: her cleverness, her ingenuity, her slyness, her brilliance. A character with high Guile often thinks in ways that bewilder or confuse others, and rarely favor the straightforward approach. The skill specialties Portents, Prowl, Deduce, and Deceive are related to Guile.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Competency Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each character has a Competency Die that represents their general level of overall skill and life experience. New player characters begin with a D6 Competency Die; you can add your Competency Die to any skill check in which you\u8217're trained.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As a character increases in experience, her Competency Die will slowly increase, as explained in the later section on Experience. A player character\u8217's maximum Competency Die is D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For the Gamemaster:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can create non-player characters (NPCs) with no Competency Dice to represent untrained characters, or characters with higher Competency Dice to provide a greater challenge for experienced player characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Skills & Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are 12 Skills, ranging from Culture to Streetwise.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The basic level of training in a Skill is known as competency. If your character is competent with a Skill, you get to add your Competency Die to any rolls made with that Skill. Competency in a skill is represented by a checkbox on the character sheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once your character has competency in a Skill, you can also gain ranks in the Specialties for the Skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three specialties for each skill, corresponding to the three Attributes: Verve, Affinity, and Guile. For example, the Specialties for Culture are Arts (Verve), Etiquette (Affinity), and Scholarship (Guile).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Specialties are ranked from +1 up to +5, although starting characters can only gain a maximum of +2. Each rank represents one additional die \u8211- of the same type as the Attribute die \u8211- that you can add to a dice pool when attempting that skill or specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Your character has D10 for Guile, competency with Nature, and +2 ranks of the Prowl specialty. That means that you get to include your Competency die in your Nature (Prowl) roll, and you get to add 2 additional D10 dice (same size as your Guile die) to the pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Item Dice & Charmwoven Gear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For certain skill rolls, you can add Item Dice to your pool, but only one die per roll. The most common item dice are Weapon Dice and Armor Dice, used in combat, but you can also get an Item Die for non-combat rolls if you\u8217're using tools, such as chirurgeon\u8217's knives or a crowbar.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can also include one Charm Die in your roll. One common practice is the weaving of enchantments into fashionable clothing. These Charms assist you with specific Specialties by providing an extra die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A charmwoven cloak may give a Dodge D6 bonus, while a cavalier hat could provide Carouse D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Because you envision your character sneaking around quite often, you buy yourself a piece of charmwoven apparel: boots that provide a Prowl D8 bonus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Making a Skill Roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The primary mechanic is the skill roll. You make a roll by gathering together a pool of dice and rolling them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your dice pool will consist of the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Your relevant Attribute\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Your Competency Die, if you\u8217're competent in the skill\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One die for each rank you have of the appropriate Specialty, matching the size of your Attribute die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One Item Die, if appropriate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One Bonus Die, if appropriate\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You decide to use Prowl to get past a guard, so you start building your dice pool. Prowl is a Specialty of the Nature skill, and is associated with Guile.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The pool consists of:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab First, your Guile D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Then, because you\u8217're trained in Nature, you get to add your D6 Competency Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Next, your two ranks (+2) in Prowl give you two additional dice of the same type as your Guile Attribute, so 2D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab No Item Dice apply, but your +1D8 Charm Die on your boots applies as a Bonus die.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Thus your total dice pool for this roll will be 1D10 + 1D6 + 2D10 + 1d6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To see if you successfully sneak, you will roll that pool of dice. This dice pool can be abbreviated as 3D10+1D8+1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Reading a Skill Roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have rolled the dice, you need to read the results. You calculate your total by keeping the two highest-rolling dice and discarding all the rest. Add those two dice together for the total.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The lower die from the two you kept tells you the number of Success Points you rolled. If you succeed in your action, you can spend those Success Points to accomplish results.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have a dice pool of 3D10+1D8+1D6. You roll the dice and get the following results:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Result\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first thing you do is discard everything except the two highest rolling dice, leaving you with 7 and 6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Adding those together, you get a total of 13.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The low die, a 6, determines the number of Success Points.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 So in this case, if you succeed, you would have six Success Points to spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Rolling One Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you only roll one die, that die\u8217's number alone is the total, and your number of Success Points is always one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Drop Penalties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Drop penalty is an adjustment to the number of dice you roll, based on a negative or hindering quality affecting your character. The most common Drop penalties are the results of Wounds, Combined Actions, Range Penalties, or General Modifiers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Drop penalties are expressed as \u8220"Drop X,\u8221" where X is the number of dice you must drop from your pool before rolling. \u8220"Drop 1\u8221" means to remove one die, \u8220"Drop 2\u8221" means remove two dice, and so on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you drop dice, you get to choose which ones to drop. In nearly every situation you\u8217're going to be dropping your dice with the smallest size first, so D6 before D8, D10 before D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have a dice pool to roll for Prowl: 3D10+1D8+1D6. However, you are suffering two Wounds, giving you a Drop 2 penalty. You drop the D8 and the D6, leaving 3D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You roll those dice, getting the following results:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 :::: dice ::::::::::::; | Die | Result | | :\u8211-: | :\u8212--: | | D10 | 2 | | D10 | 3 | | D10 | 7 |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These total to 10, with three potential Success Points. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Opposition Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Whenever you make a Skill Roll of any kind, you are making an opposed check \u8211- either against an opponent or against Standard Opposition dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When facing an opponent \u8211- such as trying to negotiate against someone or stab them with a sword \u8211- the opponent gets to make an appropriate defense or opposition roll. This is dependent upon the situation; for a Negotiate roll, the appropriate opposition is likely another Negotiate roll, while a Lunge can be opposed by a Parry, Block, or Dodge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: example ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::; {\i Example:} While Prowling around, you fail a roll and are spotted by a guard. She demands to know what you\u8217're doing and if you\u8217're supposed to be there. You aren\u8217't actually supposed to be there, so you need to make up a story to convince her. This requires the use of the Deceive specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Deceive is a Guile specialty under the Interaction skill, and you\u8217're competent with Deceive. You have 1 rank in the Deceive specialty. In addition, you have a charmwoven hat with a Deceive +1D6 Charm Die. Your dice pool is 1D10 + 1D6 + 1D10 + 1D6, or 2D10 + 2D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The opposition dice will be the guard\u8217's Intuition roll. The guard has an Affinity of D10, a D6 Competency Die, and +1 rank in Intuition. Her dice are 1D10 + 1D6 + 1D10, or 2D10 + 1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You roll 2D10 + 2D6 and get 9, 3, 2, 3 for a total of 12 with three success points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Gamemaster then rolls for the guard\u8217's Intuition specialty and gets 6, 2, and 5. Her total is 11 and her success points are five.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Because her total is lower than yours, you succeeded on your Deceive roll and she buys your story. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Standard Opposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are making a roll which isn\u8217't opposed by another character (PC or NPC), the Gamemaster will roll Standard Opposition dice \u8211- such as if you are walking a tightrope, picking a lock, or reciting a poem.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The number of Standard Opposition dice is always three, but the type of dice vary depending on the difficulty level set by the Gamemaster.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For the Gamemaster:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Select the size of dice to roll by consulting this table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficulty Level\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Difficulty Level\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Very Easy task should automatically succeed; they just happen, especially if they fit the genre of the game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use Standard Opposition dice in a number of situations in which you don\u8217't have a specific NPC opposing an action. If a PC is trying to influence a crowd, just choose 3D6 or 3D8 to represent the difficulty in influencing the crowd.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Spending Success Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have succeeded at a skill roll, you can spend your Success Points to produce results.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each Specialty has one or more associated Success Tables. This is what the Success Table for Deceive looks like:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deceive\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intuition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Think on Your Feet\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Appear Sincere\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Appear Trustworthy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can spend your Success Points and achieve the desired results. Each \u8220"+\u8221" indicates the expenditure of one Success Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The results you can achieve are dependent upon the shared reality of the fictional world. In other words, if there\u8217's no way you can convince the guard that your lie is true \u8211- for example, if you told the guard that you\u8217're her sister and she clearly knows her own family \u8211- then you can\u8217't choose to appear trustworthy. A Deceive roll isn\u8217't mind control!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If applicable and appropriate, you can choose a result more than once. It doesn\u8217't make sense to appear sincere twice, so you can\u8217't choose that multiple times, but if you had the success points you could gain mutiple style points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It\u8217's possible that you may run out of things to spend Success Points on. In such a case, the extra points you don\u8217't spend are simply unused and go away.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have three Success Points and succeeded on your Deceive roll. You decide to spend your Success Points as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b +:} Think on Your Feet \u8211- you quickly come up with a good lie. \u8220"I\u8217'm the \u8230? inspector! I\u8217'm here to inspect \u8230? all the things!\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b ++:} Appear Sincere \u8211- you don\u8217't seem like you\u8217're obviously lying, so the guard believes you.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Style Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Style Points are a limited resource which you can use to improve your dice rolls. You start each game session with one Style Point and can gain more by spending Success Points with successful skill rolls. Three Success Points will earn you one Style Point. However, you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You score six Success Points on a Deceive roll, and spend your Success Points like this:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b +:} Think on Your Feet\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b ++:} Appear Sincere\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b +++:} Gain 1 Style Point\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Every time you gain a Style Point, you are required to describe what your character has done that is particularly stylish. You can\u8217't overly bend the narrative of the game \u8211- your stylish description can\u8217't have any mechanical effect \u8211- but you can use the opportunity to make your character perform an impressive act that is unique to her personality and style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You choose to Think on Your Feet, Appear Sincere, and Gain 1 Style Point. The Gamemaster asks you, \u8220"what do you do that\u8217's so stylish while you\u8217're tricking the guard?\u8221" You answer:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"I give a dashing and reassuring smile as I tell this outlandish lie, a sparkle of moonlight reflecting off my teeth with a \u8216'glint!\u8217' sound. With confident assurance, I tell her that I\u8217'm here to perform an inspection, and I even hint that if she doesn\u8217't comply, she may be in trouble with her superiors.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Awesome! That happens,\u8221" says the Gamemaster. And you earn your Style Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For the Gamemaster:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It\u8217's perfectly within your rights to veto any stylish description if you think it\u8217's too absurd, but most of the time you should let players get away with whatever they want to describe. It\u8217's their Style Point and thus their chance to narrate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The only time that you should definitely step in is when you feel a description isn\u8217't stylish {\i enough.} Then you can prompt the player for more awesomeness and encourage them toward an over-the-top, flamboyant display.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each player character starts with two Style Maneuvers and can purchase more with Experience Points. Style Maneuvers each cost one or two Style Points to use.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unlike {\i gaining} Style Points, you are not required to narrate something stylish when you {\i use} a Style Maneuver (but you can if you want to!).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three types of Style Maneuvers: Maximize, Reroll, and Add.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Maximize (Specialty)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This Style Maneuver lets you spend two Style Point, then take one of the Specialty Dice of the appropriate Specialty and set that die to its maximum value before rolling. You don\u8217't roll that die, just set it to its highest value and set it aside, then include it after you roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can only have one maximized die in any given skill roll. (You can\u8217't spend two Style Points and maximize two dice.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have the Style Maneuver \u8220"Maximize Deceive.\u8221" You can spend two Style Points to set one of your D10 dice to its maximum value before rolling. That gives you an automatic 10 on that die. You then roll the other dice \u8211- 1D10 + 2D6 \u8211- getting a 2, a 3, and a 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Adding the 10 to the 3, you get a total of 13 with three success points. Nice!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Reroll (Skill)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This Style Maneuver lets you reroll a roll that you just made. Spend a Style Point, pick up all the dice (except maximized dice, of course) and reroll them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can reroll the same skill roll as many times as you like, until you run out of Style Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You make your Deceive roll and get 4, 2, 3, and 2. That\u8217's really low \u8211- a total of 7 with 3 success points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You have a Style Maneuver \u8220"Reroll Interaction.\u8221" You spend a Style Point and reroll the dice, and get a much better roll: 7, 9, 2, 6. Hooray! This is a total of 16 and seven Success Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Add (One Specialty) to (Another Specialty)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This Style Maneuver lets you add your Specialty dice to another roll. You add only the Specialty dice \u8211- of the same size as the first Specialty\u8217's related Attribute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can only use each Add Style Maneuver once per roll, although you could use additional, different Style Maneuvers together on the same roll if they all apply.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have a Style Maneuver that lets you add your Banter dice to your Deceive roll. Normally your Deceive roll is 2D10 + 2D6. You have +2 ranks in Banter (a Verve specialty), and your Verve is D8, so you get to add 2D8 (not your entire Perceive dice pool) to your Deceive roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your Deceive dice pool is now 2D10 + 2D8 + 2D6. You roll the dice and get 4, 9, 8, 2, 4, and 3. Hooray! This is a total of 17 and eight Success Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each game session gives you three to five Experience Points (XP), which you use to improve your player character. The cost for each improvement is shown in the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Character Improvement\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Notes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 New Skill Competency\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank, per rank:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Equal to the new rank\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0 to +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1 to +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (3 XP from +0 to +2)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2 to +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (6 XP from +0 to +3)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3 to +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (10 XP from +0 to +4)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4 to +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (15 XP from +0 to +5)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 New Language\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add a Style Maneuver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Character Improvements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Note that there is no cost listed for improving your character\u8217's Attributes! Your Attributes are fixed for the life of your character as they represent innate qualities unique to her. If you have a D6 Verve at the start of your career, you\u8217'll have a D6 Verve at the end.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have spent (not earned, spent) a certain number of Experience Points on improvements, your character\u8217's Competency Die will improve, as shown on the table below. In addition, the maximum number of ranks your character can have in any one Specialty increases.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 XP Spent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Competency Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Specialty Rank\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 50\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 XP and Competency Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Experience points can be spent between game sessions, at the beginning of a session, at the end of a session, or between scenes. You can\u8217't spend your experience points during a scene, however.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 For the Gamemaster:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The XP system is flexible and relies on your judgment as to how many points to award per session, although the default is three XP to five XP for a typical session of four hours of game play. In general, you should only give out XP at the end of a session, not immediately after each scene.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Character Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Summary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To make your own character, follow these instructions while filling out the character sheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Competency Die, XP, & Yield Limit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As a starting character, you have a D6 competency die and you start with 0 XP earned, 0 XP spent. Your Yield Limit equals the maximum value of your Competency Die plus 3, so 9 for a starting character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Choose Two Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character is a composite of two classes. For each class chosen, record the following information:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Skills & Specialty Ranks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your classes determine your starting Skill Competency and your Specialty ranks. For each skill listed, check the corresponding box to indicate Competency. For each Specialty listed, place a +1 in the appropriate blank space; if both classes give ranks in a specialty, write +2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Weapon & Armor Prowess\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your Weapon prowess & Armor prowess are the total of those granted by your two classes. Check the boxes on the character sheet that correspond with all of your Weapon and Armor prowesses.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Social Rank & Wealth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For each of your classes, record the Social Rank and the die for each rank. For example, if your two classes give the social ranks Commoner (1D0) and Soldier (1D6), you\u8217'd write down \u8220"Commoner (1D0)\u8221" and \u8220"Soldier (1D6).\u8221" Also record the dice values on the Wealth section of your character sheet, along with your Competency Die. Your total Wealth Roll consists of those three dice together in a pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The social ranks are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Noble (D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Royalty (D12)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Bonus Gear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each class provides you with a set of clothing and possibly additional equipment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Choose one Style Maneuver from each class and record it on your character sheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your attributes are Verve, Affinity, and Guile. Assign one of them the value D10, another one D8, and the last D6, and write those in the appropriate boxes. You probably want to put the D10 in the attribute that corresponds to the column where you have the most Specialty ranks, but it\u8217's not required.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Nationality & Languages\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Choose and record your nationality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are from France, you speak and read France; if not, you speak your native language automatically and don\u8217't know France (you\u8217'll need to learn it with one of your customizations; see step 10). For each prowess rank you have in Culture (Scholarship), you speak and read an additional language. Record each language that you know.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Passions & Personifications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Choose four Passions for your character that describe what she feels is important in her life. The standard Passions are Artistry, Church, Country, Faith, Family, Friends, Justice, Knowledge, Love, Loyalty, Lust, Pride, and Wealth. You will rank your four chosen Passions from D12 (the strongest) to D6 (the weakest).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Optional:} For each Passion, name one person associated with that passion and record that person\u8217's name to the right of the Passion. This is the person (living or dead) whom your character most closely associates with that Passion, either positively or negatively. You can use an existing NPC (or even PC), or name a new one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Customizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You get to choose up to six customizations for your character. Choose your six customizations from the following list (you can choose each customization more than once):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Increase one of your Social Rank values by one step; you can increase each Social Rank die only once.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add one Weapon or Armor Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add a new Language.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add one Skill Competency.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add +1 rank in a Specialty, to a maximum of +2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add a Style Maneuver from either of your classes or from your Nationality.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Additional Equipment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You begin with bonus gear as determined by your class listings. You also get your choice of one weapon: Knife, Pistol, or Sword.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You begin the game with three Rewards \u8211- one of them equal to your Competency Die, and the other two equal to your Social Rank Dice. You can buy additional equipment by using these Rewards \u8211- for example, a D8 Reward can be used to purchase any item of cost D8 or lower.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you don\u8217't want any of your starting gear, you can sell it back and gain an equivalent Barter Die. For example, if you don\u8217't want a musket (Cost: 1D10), you can trade it in for one D10 Barter Die. You can\u8217't make any Purchase rolls or use your Barter Dice during character creation, but you can spend your Rewards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Character Details\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Write down a name, gender, and other biographical data for your character. Write down two or three words for your character\u8217's Reputation, such as \u8220"Fearsome Opponent,\u8221" \u8220"Mostly Harmless,\u8221" or \u8220"Renowned Lover.\u8221" Your reputation need not be true.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters in this game are passionate, and their passions often spur them on to fantastic success or dismal failure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each character is defined by four Passions that are ranked with Passion Dice, from D12 at the highest, down to D10, D8, and D6 at the lowest. The size of each Passion Die indicates the relative strength of that Passion in the character\u8217's life.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You must always have one passion at D12, one at D10, one at D8, and one at D6, and they must all be different Passions. (You can\u8217't double up with the same Passion with two different dice sizes.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, each of your Passions is embodied by another character, living or dead, as the Personification of that Passion in your character\u8217's mind.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Using Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use your character\u8217's Passions when roleplaying, by making decisions that reflect the role her Passions play in her thoughts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, Passions can also be used with Style Points for game benefits. Passions can be used in one of three ways:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Indulge your Passion during a scene to gain 1 Style Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add your Passion die to a roll by spending 1 Style Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Struggle with your Passion to make it harder for you to succeed at something \u8211- and when you fail, you gain a free Style Point.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Indulge Your Passion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During a scene, if your character takes the time to focus on her Passion to the exclusion of other activities, you can gain 1 Style Point \u8211- but only up to the normal maximum of three Style Points at any one time. You can only do this once per Passion, per session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, someone whose Passion is their Faith may engage in prayer, while another person who has a Passion for Knowledge may engage in scientific discovery or reading a new book.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As with any time in which a Style Point is gained, you must describe how your character is acting with style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Add Your Passion Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By spending a Style Point, you can add one Passion Die to a Dice Pool under the following conditions:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Your Passion must be related to the roll that you are making.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You have not already added that Passion to a die roll in this session.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You need to have a good reason why your success or failure hinges on your character\u8217's Passion \u8211- for example, perhaps your character is motivated to succeed because of her sense of Pride, or her desire for more Wealth. If you can\u8217't justify how your character\u8217's Passion would influence the outcome, you can\u8217't spend the Style Point and can\u8217't include your Passion Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Struggle With Your Passion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes your character\u8217's Passion isn\u8217't a benefit, but is a hindrance. In such cases you can choose to struggle with that Passion by adding the appropriate Passion Die to the opposing Dice Pool when the Gamemaster makes a dice roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your roll then fails, you gain 1 Style Point and get to describe how your character\u8217's Passion conflicted her and caused her to fail. If your roll succeeds, you don\u8217't gain this Style Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can only choose to do this when the roll is related to your character\u8217's Passion, as with adding the Passion Die to your own roll; in addition, you can only do this once per Passion per session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Inverted Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes, one\u8217's love for something can be twisted into pain. These are known as inverted passions; rather than being passionate toward the object of your Passion, you\u8217're opposed to it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You decide when you select a Passion whether it\u8217's normal or inverted. You probably shouldn\u8217't have more than one inverted Passion for a starting character, although your Passions may become inverted during the course of game play. (See \u8220"Changing Passions\u8221", below.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 List of Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following is a list of the most common Passions that drive characters in the game. You can pick from this list or write your own custom Passion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Several of these Passions require additional definition, such as specifying the Country that you\u8217're passionate about, or the group you\u8217're loyal to. You can record this beside the Passion die on your character sheet\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Artistry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A character with a Passion for Artistry is drawn toward things of beauty, be they works of art, music, science, or nature. Such characters are often either artists themselves, or patrons of the arts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Artistry, Inverted:} The ugliness of your soul drives you to destroy things of beauty rather than cherish them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Church\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A character with a Passion for the Church is devoted to the hierarchy of a religious institution.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Church, Inverted:} You despise all that the Church stands for, seeing them as one of the greatest threats to your life and those of others.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Country\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Passion for one\u8217's Country is usually, although not always, the same as a Passion for the ruler of that country. The Passions may conflict if one has Loyalty toward one group or cause who opposes the current government.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Country, Inverted:} Your country has done you wrong \u8211- either through deliberate malice or \u8220"benign\u8221" neglect. Your ire may be directed against all people of that nation, or just against the ruling parties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Faith\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As contrasted with Passion for the Church, Passion for one\u8217's Faith is less about the religious organization and more about the beliefs. It\u8217's possible (and quite common) to have both Passions, or also to have just one or the other.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Faith, Inverted:} You reject the Faith that once filled your heart with joy. No longer a true believer, you work to convert others to leave that religion just as you have.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Family\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters with strong familial ties have a Passion for Family. This can include one\u8217's extended family and household, or may just be one\u8217's immediate family \u8211- such as parents or children.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Family, Inverted:} You\u8217're the one decent person in a family of terrible people \u8211- or perhaps the only terrible person in a family of saints. You\u8217're determined to prove to your kin that they were always wrong about you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Friends\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some people are very faithful to their Friends and would do anything for them \u8211- even die for them in some cases. You can decide if this applies to all your character\u8217's friends or just her closest friends.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Friends, Inverted:} You keep to yourself and don\u8217't form any friendships. Why? Because at one time in the past, you felt horribly betrayed by someone you trusted, and it\u8217's hard for you to call anyone \u8220"friend\u8221" again, no matter how nicely they\u8217're acting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Justice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The cause of Justice is a higher calling to right that which is wrong in the world. The Passion may stem from an innate sense of right and wrong, but more commonly it is a reaction to some act of terrible injustice that has been perpetrated against the character or the ones she holds dear.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Justice, Inverted:} The concepts of fairness and justice are a lie designed to keep us all docile sheep. Flaunting the law through blatant displays of criminal activity is your favorite way to subvert the status quo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Knowledge\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dedication to the pursuit of Knowledge can be expressed through a desire to learn the truth behind mysteries, to explore the world, or to learn all that can be learned.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge, Inverted:} There are some things that the common people were not meant to know. Only you can be fully trusted with these secrets, and you\u8217'll do what\u8217's necessary to stop that Knowledge from falling into the wrong hands.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Love\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Romance is the most common expression of a Passion for Love, although there are other types of Love that qualify. Love may be for a single person, or someone\u8217's heart may be divided among many loves.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Love, Inverted:} Love hurts, scars, wounds, and marks. You knew you\u8217'd never love that way again, and now you\u8217're all out of love. All you want is someone who won\u8217't hurt you, won\u8217't hurt you no more. But does that person even exist?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Loyalty\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Passion of Loyalty is about dedication to a specific person or group. You must specify who is the subject of your character\u8217's Loyalty if you choose this Passion. You might not actually like the people you\u8217're loyal to, but this isn\u8217't about friendship but honor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Loyalty, Inverted:} You can\u8217't trust anyone. They might demand your loyalty or pledge it to you, but no one is actually faithful. Be on guard, for anyone may betray you at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Lust\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Passion of Lust is about following one\u8217's baser desires, usually expressed through sexual pleasure. Characters who are Passionate about Lust can be flirty, teasing, or promiscuous.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lust, Inverted:} Actually, it\u8217's about ethics in sexual relationships. You\u8217're one of the good people, and yet the objects of your desire keep gravitating away from you and toward inferior mates! They\u8217'll pay for making you involuntarily celibate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Pride\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Passion for Pride means a character is highly focused on her own dignity and reputation. Affronts to such Pride are met with strong challenges, as such things are not to be tolerated.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pride, Inverted:} Life feels like a succession of failures, but that\u8217's okay \u8211- you deserve such misery, right? The best you can hope for is to scrape by, surviving. Sure, it would be really nice if things turned around, but how likely is that to happen?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Wealth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Individuals with a Passion for Wealth are focused on the acquisition, maintenance, and spending of sums of money. Some come from poor backgrounds and wish to move beyond their humble beginnings, while others are rich misers who count every penny.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wealth, Inverted:} Money? Who needs money? It just leads to temptation. You give all of yours away as soon as you get it, usually to worthy charities or individuals. You might even steal from the wealthy to give to the impoverished.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Personifications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Personification is someone who represents, to that character, the associated Passion \u8211- for good or for ill.\u160?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, someone with a Passion for family may think of her beloved mother who taught them how to hunt \u8211- or she could think of her overbearing grandfather who always demanded more than she could provide. Someone with a Passion for Country could be intensely loyal to the King himself, or could idolize a revolutionary writer from last century.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Personifications are a way to tie your character to the world and provide the Gamemaster with non-player characters for you to interact with. A Personification could be living or dead, an existing NPC or a completely new one created by the player.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Gamemaster\u8217's Toolbox: Passion Rolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition to using Passions to earn or spend Style Points, you can have players make a Passion Roll at the beginning of a game session. Such rolls give hints as to what is on the character\u8217's mind at the moment and a way to challenge that character\u8217's motivations in a meaningful way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To make a Passion Roll, a player rolls all of the dice for her Passions \u8211- a D6, a D8, a D10, and a D12. The die that rolls the highest indicates which Passion is in play for that session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Dani has the following Passions: Loyalty D12, Pride D10, Country D8, Love D6. She rolls her Passion dice, getting these results:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 D12: 5, D10: 7, D8: 6, D6: 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The high roll is the 7 and it\u8217's on the D10. Her D10 Passion is Pride, which means that Dani may face a situation where her Pride is tested.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 One of the simplest things to do is to have the player\u8217's Personification of that Passion make an appearance, or a story hook related to that Personification. In some cases it may not be possible \u8211- such as a long-dead grandparent \u8211- but even then, it pays to get creative. Maybe the character finds a long-lost letter, meets up with an old enemy of her grandparent, or even has a portentious dream about her ancestor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Passion Roll is a tool for improvising roleplay and shouldn\u8217't be seen as a constraint on your storylines \u8211- you can make the result of the roll as important or unimportant as you wish.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your style as a Gamemaster runs toward planning instead improvisation, you can have your players make Passion rolls at the end of a game session and use the results to decide what plot elements to introduce in the next game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In an ongoing campaign, it\u8217's likely that the same Passion will come up repeatedly. You can ameliorate this effect by removing from the pool the die corresponding to whichever Passion came up in the immediately previous session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Changing Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During your character\u8217's life experiences, her priorities may change. After a game session you can make one of the following changes based on what happened during that session:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Swap two \u8220"adjacent\u8221" passions, such as your D12 Passion and your D10 Passion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Invert one of your Passions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Revert one of your inverted Passions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Change out your D6 Passion for a Passion you don\u8217't already have.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you swap, invert, or revert your Passions, your Personifications may or may not change; it\u8217's up to you to decide.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Experience Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each session, the Gamemaster awards experience points based on the following table. If faster progression is desired \u8211- for example, in a campaign with limited sessions \u8211- the MJ can increase the rewards by a factor of up to three.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Per Sesssion\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP per session\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Each Major Scene\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP per scene\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Storyline Resolution\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Faster Leveling\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2 or x3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Experience Point Rewards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can spend your experience points to add new abilities to your character or improve current abilities, as shown on the table below. You must have Competency in a Skill to increase your Specialty rank, and your Style Maneuvers can be chosen from your own classes, from your National Styles, or from other classes with the Gamemaster\u8217's approval. Your Specialty ranks cannot be increased beyond +2 until your Competency Die increases (see the following section).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Character Element\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Notes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 New Skill Competency\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank, per rank:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Equal to the new rank\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0 to +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1 to +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (3 XP from +0 to +2)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2 to +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (6 XP from +0 to +3)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3 to +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (10 XP from +0 to +4)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4 to +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (15 XP from +0 to +5)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 New Language\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add a Style Maneuver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Character Improvements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have spent at least 20 XP to improve your character, your Competency Die increases to a D8, and your limit for Specialty ranks increases to +3. Additional expenditures of XP increase your Competency Die and Specialty rank limit further, as shown below.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Remember to adjust your Yield Limit each time your Competency Die increases.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 XP Spent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Competency Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Specialty Rank\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 50\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 XP Spent and Competency Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Optional Rule: Training Time\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each XP spent typically requires one week of practice or training. This requirement can be waived by the Gamemaster if you\u8217've already invested time and effort in activities relevant to your XP expenditure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character is a composite of two classes. Each class provides you with half of your starting skill competencies, specialties, weapon and armor prowess, social rank, starting gear, and style Maneuvers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The various classes can be divided up into three basic categories: skilled classes, social classes, and fighting classes. These are shown on the following tables.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For the most well-rounded character, choose a fighting class and either skilled or social class; that way, you\u8217'll be effective in a fight as well as outside of one. Duelist is a good choice for a fighting class, if you can\u8217't find another that doesn\u8217't really fit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are mainly interested in creating things or helping people, you can choose one skilled class and one social class, or two skilled classes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To make a mostly social character, choose a social class and a skilled class, or two social classes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Finally, if you want to build a character who excels at combat but not at much else, choose two fighting classes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You don\u8217't have to choose your classes if you don\u8217't feel inspired; instead you can roll 1D8 for each one. Feel free to reroll if you don\u8217't like your original results!\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Class\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Summary\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brigand\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Outlaw highwayperson\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Constable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duly appointed law enforcement officer\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dragoon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Professional soldier in heavy armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duelist\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expert swordsperson and fencing master\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fusilier\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expert sniper and master of ranged combat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Provincial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 A commoner from the rural provinces\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Privateer\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Swashbuckling sailor of the high seas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Veteran\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Experienced soldier and person-at-arms\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Fighting Classes\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Class\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Summary\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemist\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Combines science and magick to create draughts\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charmweaver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weaves magick charms into custom attire\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chirurgeon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Healer and surgeon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Explorer\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leaves civilization behind to seek out a new world\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mechanician\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Creates and maintains clockwork machines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Virtuosa\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prodigy in the arts or music\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Visionary\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Genius Renaissance woman or man\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Witch\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heir to a long tradition of folk magic\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skilled Classes\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Class\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Summary\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Barrister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Represents clients in a court of law\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2, 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chaplain\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clergy of the Asrian faith\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charlatan\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mountebank out to swindle the populace\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtier\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Member of the Royal Court\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dogsbody\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Faithful manservant and henchperson\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Envoy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ambassador for a national or regional government\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Provocateur\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mysterious spy with hidden motives\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Social Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Class Descriptions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Duelist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Duelist is a swashbuckling swordfighter who lives by her wits and her skill at her blade. She may be a member of the military, or may be a freelance fencer who runs her own dueling school. Quite a few actors have been known to take up dueling as well.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Duelist is appropriate to accompany any other class. As swordfighting is so prevalent in the game, the Duelist class is a natural choice for most appropriate character concepts.\line In other words, if you can\u8217't decide on a second class, choose Duelist.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Any\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Any\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Duelist Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Parry +1, Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1, Feint +1), Streetwise (Banter +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible, Shield\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Swashbuckler outfit (cavalier hat, doublet, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, cape), buckler (Shield +1D8), rapier (Sword +1D8)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Duelist Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Confident Fencing:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deflecting Shield:} When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Retort:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precise Swordplay: }Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Alchemist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Alchemists brew potions, poisons, and antidotes based on scientific principles. They can produce a variety of effects, ranging from healing to magical abilities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most Alchemists are successful merchants, many running small apothecaries to vend their wares.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Charlatan, Chirurgeon, Mechanician, Visionary, Witch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Alchemist Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1), Magicks (Brew +1), Medicine (Treat +1, Poison +1), Science (Calculus +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Crafter outfit (artisan\u8217's beret, smock, craftsman\u8217's gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 8 supplies of alchemical ingredients, 2 doses of poison antidote, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Alchemist Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Anti-Toxins:} When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend 1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Chemical Calculations:} When working in a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Erudition:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deadly Toxicology:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Poison die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ritual Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Barrister\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When someone is accused of a crime another person, she will usually be represented in court by a Barrister. Barristers have special training in the law and court procedures, and are skilled at speaking before a magistrate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Chaplain, Constable, Courtier, Envoy, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Family, Justice, Loyalty, Pride\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Barrister Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Streetwise (Banter +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines), 6 law books (Knowledge +1D6, six legal topics)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Barrister Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Erudition:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b For The Defense:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Legal Precedents:} When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Diplomacy:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Brigand\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The typical Brigand is a peasant or even a minor noble whose fortunes fell and they resorted to force of arms to make their living.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Not all Brigands are necessarily cruel; there\u8217's a long history of folk heroes who rob from the corrupt rich and distribute their loot among the poor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Chaplain, Dogsbody, Dragoon, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Provincial, Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Friends, Justice, Loyalty, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Brigand Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl +1), Streetwise (Larceny +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Bow\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), leather jerkin (Flexible +1D6), hunting bow (Bow +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Brigand Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Camouflage:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Natural Cover:} When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precise Bludgeoning:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trick Shot:} When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add Feint dice to an Aim roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Chaplain\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Chaplain is a clergy member of an organized religion. The duties can vary but many times a Chaplain is found serving among military members or as a member of the court. Chaplains have minimal training in combat but are skilled at interacting with people.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Barrister, Chirurgeon, Courtier, Envoy, Explorer, Provincial, Veteran, Virtuoso, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Church, Faith, Justice, Knowledge\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Chaplain Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Arts +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction (Inspire +1, Negotiate +1), Observation (Perceive +1, Intuition +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Cudgel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Priest outfit (clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier\u8217's gloves, breeches, pantofles), 3 religious books (Knowledge +1D6, religious topics), quarterstaff (Cudgel +1D8)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Chaplain Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Apologetics:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Books of the Sun:} When dealing with someone of the Asrian faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Commanding Presence:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Honed Instincts:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Charlatan\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Charlatans are swindlers, confidence men, mountebanks, and other tricksters who rely on their wits to defraud others. Many will hawk medicinal cure-alls or sell fraudulent nostrums, only to vanish when an angry crowd returns wanting their money back.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Alchemist, Dogsbody, Chirurgeon, Mechanician, Provocateur, Witch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Charlatan Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Larceny +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Crafter outfit (artisan\u8217's beret, smock, craftsman\u8217's gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6), wagon, draft horse\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Charlatan Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Mockery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Banter die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Confidence Game:} When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Prevarication:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fast-Talking:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Charmweaver\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Charmweaver is a magickally proficient artisan who weaves charms and enchantments into fabrics. Most are skilled fashion designers and can combine their artistic and magickal talents together into impressive displays.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Courtier, Dogsbody, Virtuosa, Witch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Charmweaver Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Magicks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire +1, Negotiate +1), Magicks (Weave +1), Observation (Perceive +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Crafter outfit (artisan\u8217's beret, smock, craftsman\u8217's gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), tailoring tools (Weave +1D6), 8 supplies of fabric\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Charmweaver Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dress to Impress:} While wearing an outfit you created yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Enhanced Enchantments:} Spend 2 Style points to set the value of one Charm die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fashion! Dodge to the Left:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Flamboyant Couture:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Weave die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mistress of Fashion:} When creating clothing or accoutrements with a base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Weave roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Chirurgeon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The science of medicine is the domain of the Chirurgeon, who both treats diseases and injuries, and performs major surgeries. They are often called upon to heal battlefield injuries, such as musket wounds or arrows to the knee.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Chirurgeons often wear black bird-headed Plague Masks when treating their patients; many of these are charmwoven to improve their surgical skills. Chirurgeons are not adverse to using magicks when appropriate, including alchemical remedies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Alchemist, Charlatan, Courtier, Mechanician, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Faith, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Chirurgeon Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Medicine, Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Scholarship +1), Medicine (Surgery +1, Treat +1, Poison +1), Observation (Intuition +1, Deduce +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (d8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Physician outfit (plague mask, surgeon\u8217's gown, breeches, pantofles), chirurgeon\u8217's knives (Knife, Surgery +1D6), 8 supplies of medicine\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Chirurgeon Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Anatomical Studies:} When working in a well-equipped surgical theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Erudition:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Epidemiology:} When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b First Aid:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scalpel\u8217's Cut:} When using a knife or chirurgeon\u8217's knives, spend 1 Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Second Opinion:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Constable\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Constables enforce the laws and protect the people from wrongdoers as well as capturing those who commit criminal acts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most Constables are employed by the Crown or a local province, while a few have retired and ply their trade as investigators for private hire.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Barrister, Dragoon, Duelist, Provincial, Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Justice, Knowledge, Loyalty\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Constable Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Culture, Military, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1), Dueling (Riposte +1), Defense (Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Observation (Deduce +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Musket\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible, Rigid\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Guard uniform (capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D6), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Constable Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Criminology:} When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Brilliant Analysis:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Down-n-Dirty Fighting:} When making a riposte while you have one hand free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Sharpshooting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Courtier\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Members of the royal court, and other noble courts, are Courtiers. They are well-educated, trained in etiquette and social graces, and have preternatural skill for plotting and intrigue.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Courtiers revel in their lives of luxury, but all know that they only continue to have such glamorous lives at the forbearance of their matrons and patrons. A Courtier who is outcast from polite society may return to take revenge upon a noblewoman or nobleman.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Magicks and the sciences are a draw to the Courier, as well as some martial pursuits; nobles often have time to develop such skills at their leisure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Alchemist, Barrister, Chaplain, Charmweaver, Chirurgeon, Duelist, Envoy, Provocateur, Veteran, Virtuosa, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Friends, Lust, Pride\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Courtier Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Dueling, Military\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Defense (Parry +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Intuition +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Noble (D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines), riding horse\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Courtier Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Don\u8217't You Know Who I Am?:} When speaking with someone of Artisan social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Polite Fictions:} When speaking with someone of at least Noble social rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Manners:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aristocratic Bearing:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reliable Senses:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b There\u8217's No Need for Violence:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Dogsbody\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Dogsbody is a common manservant or henchperson, one who assists another in their escapades and only rarely comes up with a cunning plan. A Dogsbody is often overlooked by those of higher social rank, and other servants and lower-class commoners are more likely to talk to a Dogsbody openly than to the manservant\u8217's master.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chaplain, Charlatan, Courtier, Dragoon, Privateer, Provincial, Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Family, Friends, Loyalty, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dogsbody Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1, Larceny +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Cudgel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dogsbody Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Comfortable Debauchery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Focused Attention:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lost in the Crowd:} When in an area with more than 3 other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b The Underground Economy:} When buying or selling on the black market, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Dragoon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Dragoon is a professional soldier, usually a member of the cavalry. Dragoons are found throughout France and beyond; they are usually more serious and less flashy than the swashbuckling Cavaliers. Dragoons usually wear heavier armor in the field.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Duelist, Dogsbody, Provincial, Veteran.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Justice, Loyalty, Pride\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dragoon Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Block +1, Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1), Nature (Husbandry +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible, Rigid\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Guard uniform (capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), lance (Polearm +1D10)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dragoon Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Assault:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deflecting Shield:} When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mounted Combatant:} When using a weapon with the Mounted quality while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ubiquitous Shield:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Envoy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An Envoy is a diplomatic representative, usually of a country, province, or other political group, although some represent religious groups or trade unions. An Envoy character should identify who she works for at the start of the game (although her allegiance may change during play).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Envoys are usually well-traveled and skilled at reading people and reaching compromises.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Provocateur, Speaker\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Church, Country, Knowledge, Loyalty -\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Envoy Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Nature\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire +1, Negotiate +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Perceive +1, Intuition +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Noble (D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Envoy Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Diplomatic Immunity:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Diplomacy:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Manners:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reliable Senses:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Well-Traveled:} When dealing with someone from a foreign culture, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Explorer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Explorers are alternately courageous or foolhardy depending on who you talk to, ready to leave their lives behind and seek out the unknown.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many explorers are Privateers, although some who move to colonize exotic distant lands can be Provincials.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chaplain, Privateer, Provincial, Speaker, Veteran, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Knowledge, Loyalty, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Explorer Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Military, Nature, Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Explore +1, Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Calculus +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Bow, Musket, Whip\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10), bullwhip (Whip +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Explorer Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Relentless Pathfinding:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Explore die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Camouflage Mastery:} When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cartography:} When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Explore roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Focused Attention:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rural Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Fusilier\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Fusilier is a soldier specializing in the use of the flintlock musket and other ranged firearms, including clockwork muskets and pistols. A Fusilier can usually load, disassemble, and reassemble her weapon while blindfolded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Duelist, Mechanician, Provincial, Privateer, Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Country, Loyalty, Pride\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Fusilier Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Dodge +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Calculus +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Pistol, Musket, Grenade, Cannon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Guard uniform (capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard), leather jerkin (Flexible Armor +1D6), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Fusilier Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ballistics:} When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Focused Attention:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Incoming Fire:} When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to add Aim dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Sharpshooting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sniper:} When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Mechanician\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Fantastic clockwork devices are fashioned by Mechanicians, well-trained artisans who can engineer complex machinery to accomplish repetitive tasks. Their gadgets are in great demand throughout society, although usually only the wealthy can afford the most advanced items.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Alchemist, Charlatan, Fusilier, Privateer, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Mechanican Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Clockworks +1, Calculus +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Pistol, Musket, Bow\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Flexible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Clockworker outfit (gearspring goggles (Perceive +1D6), smock, craftsman\u8217's gloves, breeches, pantofles), leather jerkin (Flexible Armor +1D6), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6), 8 supplies of clockwork gears\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Mechanician Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Automatic Fire:} When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Verifiable Hypothesis:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Crafting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precision Mechanics:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Standing on the Shoulders of Giants:} When inventing a device in a well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Clockworks roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Privateer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Not all Privateers are pirates; most these days are licensed by one of the national governments or may in fact be part of a Royal Navy. Privateers are skilled at sailing both sea-ships and air-ships, although the latter are still quite rare.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chirurgeon, Dogsbody, Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Mechanician, Provincial, Veteran, Virtuosa\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Loyalty, Lust, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Privateer Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Pistol, Cannon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots), cutlass (Sword +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Privateer Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Broadsides:} When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Evasion:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Misdirection:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Feint die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Into the Rigging:} When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Fencing:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Naval Hilt:} When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Provincial\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Outside of the big cities of France are the provinces of Gallinea \u8211- home to commoners and petty noblefolk, many of whom lack education and refinement. These Provincials \u8211- and the Provincials of other nations \u8211- are looked down on by the city folk.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Provincials who come to Paris often feel they have something to prove when dealing with residents of the capital city; it\u8217's not uncommon for brawls to break out in bars because someone\u8217's clothes or horse was insulted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A few Provincials are minor nobles and choose the Courtier co-class, although they rarely are afforded the respect given to their urban cousins.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody, Dragoon, Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Veteran, Witch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Family, Love, Pride\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Provincial Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Nature (Husbandry +1, Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Streetwise ( +1Carouse)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Cudgel, Bow\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), draft horse\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Provincial Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Fisticuffs:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equestrienne:} When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Cultivation:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Street Fighting:} When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Provocateur\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A revolutionary, a spy, an assassin, a traitor, a conspirator \u8211- these are terms used to speak of the Provocateur, a shadowy figure enmeshed in plots within plots. Provocateurs are used by all nations of Europe, although they are rarely trusted even among those who employ them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A typical Provocateur does not advertise her profession, so she will usually rely on her co-class for her public persona.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Charlatan, Courtier, Duelist, Envoy, Speaker, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Church, Country, Love, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Provocateur Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Medicine, Military, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Medicine (Poison +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1, Larceny +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Any one outfit, dagger (Knife +1D6), 6 doses of poison\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Provocateur Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Thievery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deadly Toxicology:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Poison die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Envenomed Blade:} When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to add Poison dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mostly Harmless:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Shady Negotiations:} When dealing with criminals or conspirators, spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Veterans of war are well-trained in the art of battle, and if not currently part of a military unit, often join mercenary companies or guard regiments rather than settle down into a civilian lifestyle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody, Dragoon, Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Provincial\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Country, Family, Friends, Loyalty\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Veteran Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Defense (Block +1), Dueling (Lunge +1), Military (Aim +1, Strategy +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol, Musket\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} Rigid, Shield\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Soldier (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Guard uniform (capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Veteran Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Sharpshooting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reconnaissance:} When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (subsection) Strategic Maneuvers:} When commanding at least 3 troops, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trained Endurance:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Block die to its maximum value before rolling\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Virtuosa\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Virtuosa is a master performer or artist, creating beautiful works of art, music, or drama. Virtuosas can be singers, actors, painters, playwrights, sculptors, musicians, composers, poets, and other artists.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Being an effective Virtuosa requires training in the arts and history, plus a great degree of innate talent. Virtuosas are well-respected throughout society, especially among the upper classes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Chaplain, Charmweaver, Courtier, Envoy, Privateer, Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Friends, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Virtuosa Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire +1, Negotiate +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Carouse +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife, Sword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines), musical instrument (Arts +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Virtuosa Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Boundless Creativity:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Arts die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Commanding Presence:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b From the Heart:} When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b I\u8217'm Too Pretty to Die!:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b In Costume:} When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Visionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Visionary is someone whose genius far exceeds that of the average person. True Renaissance women and men, they are able to apply logic and science ways that seem almost supernatural to many.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Visionary may be a leader, or she may be a quiet follower who only seeks to pursue her life\u8217's work. Visionaries are usually well-educated and can speak confidently on a variety of topics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Explorer, Mechanician, Virtuosa\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Visionary Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Culture, Medicine, Military, Nature, Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Culture (Scholarship +1), Military (Strategy +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Clockworks +1, Calculus +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Artisan (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Crafter outfit (artisan\u8217's beret, smock, craftsman\u8217's gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 6 books (Knowledge +1D6, one subject each), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Visionary Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Brilliant Analysis:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Forensic Analysis:} When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inventive Mathematics:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Tactical Retreat:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Verifiable Hypothesis:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Witch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Witches are experts at folk remedies, herbal lore, midwifery, and reading omens. Some Witches are publicly known as such, but most keep their rituals secret from the authorities, remembering recent periods of persecution.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Classes:} Alchemist, Charlatan, Charmweaver, Provincial, Virtuosa\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Suggested Passions:} Faith, Family, Friends, Love\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Witch Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Skill Competency:} Magicks, Medicine, Nature, Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Specialties:} Magicks (Brew +1, Portents +1), Medicine (Treat +1, Poison +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weapon Prowess:} Knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Armor Prowess:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Rank:} Commoner (D0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bonus Gear:} Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), 4 supplies of alchemical ingredients, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6), divination tools (Portents +1D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Witch Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Anti-Toxins:} When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend 1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b First Aid:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Folk Remedies:} When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ritual Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Second Opinion:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Uncanny Prediction:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Portents die to its maximum value before rolling\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Variants: Alternatives to Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You don\u8217't have to make your character with classes; here are two options that you can try, with your Gamemaster\u8217's permission!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Option: Playing Without Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You don\u8217't even have to play with classes (or backstories) at all. The MJ might allow this option if she wants everyone to have the most flexibility in creating their characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A base character starts with the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Skill Competency in Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and Observation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One language.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Knife Weapon Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Social Rank of Commoner (D0)/Commoner (D0).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One outfit and one common weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 30 customizations, replacing the 6 customizations that characters normally receive.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use those customizations in the following ways:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add Competency in any one skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add +1 rank to any Specialty which you have the related skill competency. Limits: You can\u8217't have more than +2 ranks in any given specialty. You can\u8217't assign more than eight ranks to the specialties corresponding to each attribute (Verge, Affinity, Guile).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add one language.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add one armor prowess or weapon prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Increase one of your social ranks by 1, to a limit of Noble (D10)/Artisan (D8).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add one style maneuver of your choice. Limits: You can have a maximum of six style maneuvers.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have assigned your customizations, you receive four rewards equal to your Competency Die, two rewards equal to your lowest rank, and two rewards equal to your highest social rank. You can spend those normally to buy your starting equipment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Example of Class-Free Character Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A player decides she\u8217's going to create a character who is all about airships. She starts with the base character and then spends her 30 customizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skill Competency:} In addition to the automatic skill competency, she also chooses to be competent with Dueling (for mid-air swordfights!), Military (for mid-air gun fights! and airship tactics), Nature (so she\u8217'll be good at exploring), and Science (since airships are pretty advanced technology). This uses four of her customizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Specialty Ranks:} The player picks Parry +1 (mid-air swordfights!), Dodge +1 (mid-air gun fights!), Aim +1 (also mid-air gun fights!), Strategy +2 (airship tactics), Explore +2 (navigating), Blackpowder +1 (firing cannons!), and Clockworks +2 (fixing a broken airship). She also chooses Scholarship +1 (mainly for geographic knowledge), Etiquette +1 (customs of far-off lands), Inspire +1 (officers should be inspiring, right?) and Perceive +1 (for looking through a spyglass). Adding up the totals for each attribute, she finds +6 ranks total for Verve (Parry, Explore twice, Blackpowder, Inspire, Perceive), +4 ranks total for Affinity (Aim, Etiquette, Clockworks twice), and +4 ranks for Guile (Dodge, Strategy twice, Scholarship). This is under the limit of eight ranks per attribute, so she\u8217's good there. This costs 14 of her customizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Languages:} The player decides she will be from England, and thus her free language is English. She also gets a bonus language from her +1 rank in Scholarship, and she picks French. She decides to also learn Italian and German, and that uses up two more customizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Armor or Weapon Prowess:} While she doesn\u8217't think she needs armor prowess, the player does want to know how to use Swords, Pistols, and Cannons. She spends three customizations on those.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Social Rank:} Figuring that airships are rather expensive to maintain, the player pushes her social ranks up to the maximum of Noble (D10)/Artisan (D8). This uses five of her customizations, and she\u8217's only got two left from the original 30.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Style Maneuvers:} Looking over the list of style maneuvers in Chapter 5, the player finds two that thinks will be most appropriate for a future air-captain like herself. She selects Powdersmith (when creating or repairing a device with a blackpowder flintlock power source, a phlogistone furnace power source, or an explosion component, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to a Clockworks roll) and Naval Hilt (when using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Parry roll). This uses up her last two customizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Starting Equipment:} Naturally, the player chooses to start with a corsair outfit, and for her free weapon chooses a cutlass. She receives rewards of 4D6 (from her Competency Die), 2D8 (her Artisan social rank) and 1D10 (her Noble social rank). It\u8217's not quite enough to buy an airship, so she instead buys a cutlass (1D6 cost), a mariner\u8217's astrolabe (1D6 cost), a spyglass (1D6 cost), repair tools (1D6 cost), a double pistol (1D8 cost) because it\u8217's cool, and a deck cannon (1D10 cost) since she always wanted a cannon. Doesn\u8217't everyone? This leaves her with a 1D8 reward, which she chooses to spend on four supplies of clockwork gears so she can repair an airship or make nifty toys.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Option: Creating a Custom Class\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If only one of the classes appeals to you, you can create a custom class with the Gamemaster\u8217's consent. (Having two custom classes is not recommended; choose one standard class in addition to your custom class.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Make the following choices and write them down:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Name and Description:} Decide what role the class will play in French or European. How is this class different from existing classes?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Suggested Classes and Passions:} Choose at least 3 suggested classes and passions that fit the class concept. {\b Limit:} You can\u8217't choose Duelist as one of the classes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Social Rank:} If the class is primarily focused on combat, then the Social Rank should be Soldier (D6). If the class requires formal education or apprenticeship, then the Social Rank should be Artisan (D8). Otherwise the class should probably be Commoner (D0). {\b Limit:} A custom class can\u8217't be Noble (D10) or Royal (D12) social rank.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Specialties and Skill Competency:} Choose six different specialties that make sense for the class; these all gain +1. The Skill Competencies correspond to those specialties, with the exception of skills that everyone is already competent in using. {\b Limits:} Classes never give specialty ranks in Initiative. Each attribute (Verve, Affinity, Guile) can have at most 3 specialties associated with it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon and Armor Prowess:} If the class would know how to use specific weapons or armor types, pick up to four of those, total. Remember that everyone already knows how to use a Knife.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bonus Gear:} Choose one outfit that the class will receive for free. If the class requires the use of one or more tools, pick one of those tools as well as 4 supplies of the appropriate type. If the class has weapon or armor prowess, choose up one weapon and one type of armor. Remember that everyone gets one common weapon for free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Style Maneuvers: }Choose six style maneuvers from the list of style maneuvers that are appropriate for this class: two that allow a reroll of one skill, two that allow one die to be maximized on a specialty roll, and two that let you add dice from one pool to another under specific circumstances.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you\u8217've finished creating your class, let your Gamemaster review it to see if it fits her concept of the world and the campaign. She can provide suggestions on how you can modify the class if she sees potential problems with the class.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Gamemaster-Created Classes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Gamemasters, you can create classes too, and offer them as additional choices for your players. You should try to follow the general guidelines given for players, although you can customize the social rank, bonus gear, armor prowess, and weapon prowess. You shouldn\u8217't give a class specialty ranks in Initiative, and a class shouldn\u8217't have more than 8 style maneuvers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Skills and Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are 12 skills, ranging from Culture to Streetwise. Each of these skills has three specialties, corresponding to the three Attributes of Verve, Affinity, and Guile.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Using Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To use a skill, first you determine under which specialty the task you want to perform falls. Your dice pool starts with one die of that specialty\u8217's corresponding attribute; this is your Attribute Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have competency in that skill, you can add your Competency Die to the dice pool. There are four skills that all player characters are competent at using: Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and Observation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can have +0, +1, +2, +3, +4, or +5 ranks in each specialty, although a starting character is initially limited to only +2 ranks. Each rank adds an additional die of the same size as your Attribute Die to the dice pool; these are your Specialty Dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many specialties allow you to add an Item Die from a tool or item to the dice pool as well, as described under the separate listings for each specialty. Weapon Dice and Armor Dice are subcategories of Item Dice; you can only add a Weapon or Armor die if you have prowess with that weapon or armor. You can have only one Item Die in any given dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You might have a Bonus Die that you can include in your dice pool under certain circumstances. Tag Dice and Advantage Dice are subcategories of Bonus Dice. A Tag Die is temporary and is based on a word, a phrase, a person, a place, a thing, or a concept. Your Advantage Die is used in combat, and can progress from +1D6 up to +1D12. You can only have one Bonus Die in a dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Factors that make your skills harder to use assign a Drop Penalty to your dice pool. Such factors range from Wounds to language barriers. Each Drop Penalty specifies a number of dice that are dropped \u8211- meaning removed \u8211- from your dice pool before you roll. A Drop 2 penalty means you remove 2 dice. You can choose which dice to drop, and so you\u8217're going to want to drop the smallest size dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you\u8217've finished constructing your dice pool, you roll all the dice at once. You select the dice that resulted in the highest two numbers, and you discard the results of the other dice. Then you see what the Gamemaster rolls on the opposition dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are two types of opposition dice. Some are rolls of your opponent\u8217's corresponding specialty, such as her Defense (Parry) roll against your Dueling (Lunge) roll. In other situations you might be rolling against standard opposition, rolled by the Gamemaster. Standard opposition pools consist of three dice of the same size, from Easy (3D6) to Very Difficult (3D12).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficulty\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposing Dice Pool\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Hard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The total of your roll is the sum of the two dice you kept after rolling. The success points generated by your roll equal the lower of the two dice. If you beat the total of the opposition dice, then you can spend those success points on the success table for that specialty. Otherwise, your opponent can spend her success points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can usually buy a result from a success table multiple times, unless it says otherwise in the description of the specialty. Success points you don\u8217't use are simply discarded when you finish buying the results you want.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 One of the most common ways to spend success points is to buy a style point for 3 success points. You use style points to power your style maneuvers, which let you combine together the Specialty Dice of two different specialties, set one die in a pool to its maximum value before you roll, or reroll a result that you don\u8217't like. You can only have 3 style points at a time, so if you already have 3, you can\u8217't buy any more.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The skills, specialties, and their corresponding attributes are shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skill\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve Specialty\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity Specialty\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile Specialty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arts\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Etiquette\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scholarship\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dueling\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Initiative\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Impulse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vigilance\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Timing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interaction\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inspire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negotiate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deceive\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magicks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weave\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brew\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portents\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medicine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Surgery\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Treat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brawl\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Aim\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strategy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nature\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Explore\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prowl\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Observation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Perceive\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intuition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deduce\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Science\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculus\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Banter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carouse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Larceny\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills and Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills and Specialties are described below, with a Success Table for each Specialty. You gain a set of skills and specialties from each of your classes (or backstory), and additional skills and specialty ranks from customizing your character. As you gain experience points, you can spend XP to increase your ranks in your specialties, or add new skills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Success Tables that follow are meant to be a guideline for you and the Gamemaster to determine what happens based on any given roll. They are not meant to override the fictional narrative; a result can only happen if it makes sense in the context of the story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At the Gamemaster\u8217's discretion, a different table can be used for any Specialty \u8211- or a result from any Success Table \u8211- for the price of one additional Success Point. This allows for flexibility in player actions by comparing against similar tasks, and using those results.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Generic Success Tables\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following Success Tables can be used in lieu of, or in addition to, the specific Success Tables for each Specialty. The results should be used loosely and with discretion, as some results might not be justified based on the fictional context.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Non-Combat Skills in Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This table can be used to represent Skills which aren\u8217't normally intended for a fight (i.e., not Defense, Dueling, Aim, or Brawl) but which end up being used anyway. For example, a Mechanician might attempt to overload one of her devices or a Virtuosa could sing loud enough to shatter glass.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} The opposition dice can be anywhere from Easy (3D6) to Very Difficult (3D12) depending on the Gamemaster\u8217's assessment of the situation. Alternately, the target can defend with an appropriate Defense specialty, if the Gamemaster decides the Skill use is similar to an attack.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Any Skill\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition or Applicable Defense\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Yield Taken\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Yield Taken:} If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by spending three Success Points per point of Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Knowledge Rolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Use this table for general knowledge rolls \u8211- for example, if a character with ranks in Science (Clockworks) is trying to recall the name of a famous Mechanician or a Chirurgeon is remembering the facts about a disease. Each Specialty has one or more examples of knowledge rolls that can be made with that Specialty, although the lists are not exhaustive. Gamemasters and players should be creative in how they use Specialties to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Characters automatically succeed on Knowledge checks, and the success points generated indicate how much information they\u8217're able to recall.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knowledge\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recall Common Knowledge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recall Uncommon Knowledge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recall Rare Knowledge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recall Unique Knowledge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recall Common Knowledge:} You can recall basic facts about the topic, enough to hold a simple conversation about it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recall Uncommon Knowledge:} You are aware of some things that aren\u8217't common knowledge about the subject.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recall Rare Knowledge:} You know something about the subject that only comes from deeper study or experience.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recall Unique Knowledge:} You have firsthand knowledge of something about the topic that only a few others share.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Standard Opposition Results\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These results can be used by the Gamemaster when a player\u8217's roll against Standard Opposition dice fails. As with other generic result tables, these should be used with discretion, as not all results will fit the fictional circumstances.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Standard Opposition is only rolled in response to an action taken by a player character. If the Standard Opposition roll beats the action\u8217's roll, the Gamemaster may spend the Success Points on this table, as well as declaring the action invalidated.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specific Specialty Used\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Difficulty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Tension\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mysterious Omen\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Delayed Gratification\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grant 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rude Interruption\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Unnecessary Distraction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Challenge a Passion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incredibly Bad Fortune\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Difficulty:} Step up one of the dice used in the roll, if the player character (or an ally) attempts the same task. For example, if the Standard Difficulty was Moderate (3D8), with one Success Point you could step up one die, making it 1D10+2D8 on subsequent attempts. If you spend three Success Points, step up all three of the dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} If the player character is attempting something physically, mentally, or emotionally taxing, you can choose to inflict Yield on her. Each additional two Success Points inflicts an extra point of Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Tension:} You gain a D6 Tension Die if you don\u8217't already have Tension, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12. Describe how the tension in the current situation increases based on the player character\u8217's failure at the task.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mysterious Omen:} Something ominous happens, perhaps foreshadowing a future event. Players can attempt a Portents roll if they wish to try to interpret the omen.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Delayed Gratification:} The player character (or an ally) cannot make another attempt at the same task until a certain amount of time has passed. If the task normally takes one round, she must wait for a minute; if a minute, then for an hour; if an hour, then for four hours; if four hours, then for a day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Grant 1 Style Point:} Assign a Style Point to one of your non-player characters, usually a Minor or Major Opponent. Minor Opponents can have up to three Style Points, Major Opponents can have up to six Style Points, and other characters can have only one Style Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rude Interruption:} The player character fails to complete her task because someone rudely barges in, interrupting her. Choose one of your existing NPCs or create a new character to intrude on the character; this could even be a hostile opponent, although not a Major Opponent. She won\u8217't be able to resume her task until she manages to send away the intruder.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unnecessary Distraction:} An event happens nearby that distracts the player character, causing her to fail on her attempt. This could be a loud noise outside, a sudden wind blowing around some papers, a horse that decides to bolt, or an attractive person passing by. If the player character (or an ally) attempts the task again, she gets a Drop 2 penalty on the roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Challenge a Passion:} Choose one of the player character\u8217's Passions, and a way in which it becomes challenged. Perhaps the Personification of the Passion appears (as an NPC), or the player character remembers something about that Personification (if not able to appear in person). Maybe the situation changes so that the player character has to choose between her values and succeeding at the task. Be creative! The game result is that if the player character attempts the task again, add her Passion Die to the Standard Opposition dice on subsequent tries.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Incredibly Bad Fortune:} Something goes disastrously wrong. A ship at sea gets lost, a device being created explodes, a gun misfires, the guards show up at the wrong moment, or the player character trips and falls in front of an audience. The exact details are up to you, but they should be serious without being directly deadly and possibly very embarrassing. The player character can attempt the task again one she recovers from the effects of her terrible luck.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Culture\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Culture skill includes arts, history, religion, language, mythology, music, customs, traditions, noble families, and other societal elements found in the cultures of Europe.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Culture specialties are often used as knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Arts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sculpture, music, painting, poetry, sketching, woodcuts, writing, dance, acting, and other forms of art are used to convey the core values of European society. The Arts specialty includes not just basic knowledge of artwork, but also the ability to create works of art and to perform creative works.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate a piece of art, spot a forgery, remember the name of a famous artist, identify tools and instruments used in art or music.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Create works of art such as drawings, poetry, paintings, sculptures, plays, songs, opera, novellas, and more, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bonus Die:} If you are performing an existing work of art, such as a musical composition or a play, you can include the work\u8217's Tag Die as a Bonus Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Under most situations, an Arts roll will automatically succeed and the success points will determine the quality of the performance. Under less than ideal circumstances, Standard Opposition of Easy (3D6) or higher may be required.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arts\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute or longer\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musical instrument\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Successful Performance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Encore, Encore!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Successful Performance:} You give a successful performance of a work, be it already prepared or an improvisational performance. You can create a one-word tag with a +1D0 Tag Die. This Tag Die lasts until the end of the scene, and can be used with other Specialties as a Bonus Die when appropriate. You can make one additional Tag with a +1D0 Bonus Die for each success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Tag Die: }One Tag Die of your performance improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of skill ranks you have in Culture (Arts), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arts Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Encore, Encore!:} You give such a successful performance that no one in the audience will ever forget it, or you. Any Tag Dice from this performance last for 24 hours and are automatically maximized.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Etiquette\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Etiquette specialty encompasses general knowledge about the customs, politics, traditions, and manners of the cultures of Europe, including the use of proper etiquette while in a noble court.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Foreign Etiquette:} When dealing with people from other countries or cultures, you get a Drop 2 penalty on Etiquette rolls. If you do not share a common language, the penalty increases to a Drop 4 penalty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Identify a member of the royal court, read a heraldic coat of arms, remember the correct form of address for a noble title, recall court gossip about a baroness, cite the local laws and customs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Under most situations, an Etiquette roll will automatically succeed and the success points will determine the quality of one\u8217's behavior. Under less than ideal circumstances, Standard Opposition of Easy (3D6) or higher may be required.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bonus Die:} Add your own highest Social Rank Die as a Bonus Die when making an Etiquette roll.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Etiquette\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Minute or more\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Your Social Rank Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Avoid Faux Pas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Impress an Audience\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Impression\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pass as Different Social Rank\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Avoid Faux Pas:} You communicate what you are trying to say without making any social blunders.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Impress an Audience:} You make a favorable impression on those who observe you who have a social rank of Commoner (D0). You also gain a +1D0 Tag Die that can be used in Interaction and Culture (Etiquette) rolls as a Bonus Die until the end of the scene. For each additional success point you spent, the social rank you impress increases by one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Impression:} You increase the Tag Die by one step for every two success points you spend. The size of the Tag Die limited by your Etiquette specialty ranks as follows:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Etiquette Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pass as Different Social Rank:} You affect the mannerisms and presence of a different social rank. You can pass as a social rank one higher than your highest social rank, or as a social rank one lower than your lowest social rank. Until the end of the scene, both of your social rank dice are considered equal to the new social rank. You lose this bonus if you commit a social faux pas or otherwise fail to act in accordance with the airs you\u8217've put on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Scholarship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Scholarship specialty represents your breadth of book learning and ability to do research when necessary. As such, it is used very often for knowledge rolls and rarely for anything else.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} For every rank you have in Scholarship, you gain an additional language prowess of your choice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Recall basic historical knowledge, identify a spoken or written language, remember a piece of trivia, name some of the most prestigious universities and their professors, understand and disagree with an obscure theological argument.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Write research reports, translations, or non-fiction books, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on your Scholarship to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Culture (Scholarship), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scholarship Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Use Easy (3D6) in most circumstances.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scholarship\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Book, report, or library\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Research\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Teach a Lesson\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Research:} You gain in-depth knowledge about one specific person, place, thing, group, or event for each Success Point you spend. You can only learn things that someone has written down in a book.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Teach a Lesson:} If you spend at least an hour teaching someone, she can temporarily gain Competency in one Skill or language in which you have Competency. This Competency lasts for 24 hours after your instruction ends. For each additional Success Point you spend, you can teach another student at the same time. A student can only learn one such temporary Competency at any time, from any teacher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Defense\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Defense skill is used in combat to avoid taking damage. Whenever you are attacked, you can choose which of the appropriate Defense specialties you will use, although depending on the type of attack, your Defense choices may be limited by the type of attack. For example, you can\u8217't really Parry a bullet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Automatic Competency:} Player characters are automatically Competent with the Defense skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Defense rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Parry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Parry is an attempt to block an attack with a weapon or a buckler; you need to be wielding something in one of your hands in order to make a Parry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The primary advantage of a Parry is that if you successfully Parry, you can also execute a Riposte \u8211- if you\u8217've got enough Success Points to do so. You can only execute one Riposte per Parry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Parry rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Possibility of Weapon Breakage:} If you use Parry to defend against a Lunge attack and are unsuccessful, one possible result for the attacker is to break your weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate a dueling weapon\u8217's quality, remember the names of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone\u8217's fencing style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Bucklers and extra shields, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Parry can be used against an attacker\u8217's Lunge, Feint, or Brawl roll, but not against a Riposte or Aim attack.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incoming Lunge, Feint, or Brawl Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon or Shield Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negate Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Execute a Riposte\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Disarm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Negate Attack:} You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don\u8217't do this, the attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success Points normally.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Execute a Riposte:} You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only way to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful Parry or Feint.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Disarm:} You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to attack you. (This can\u8217't be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Block roll is an attempt to prevent injury to yourself by using armor, a shield, nearby furniture, terrain, or even a less vulnerable part of your own body.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Block rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate the quality of a suit of armor or a shield, remember the names of famous soldiers, identify the blacksmith\u8217's maker\u8217's mark on armor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Rigid armor, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Block roll can be used to defend against an attacker\u8217's Lunge, Riposte, or Aim roll, but not against a Feint or Brawl attack.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incoming Lunge, Riposte, or Aim Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor or Shield Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negate Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Yield Taken\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Negate Attack:} You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don\u8217't do this, the attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success Points normally.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Yield Taken:} If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by spending two Success Points per point of Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of +1D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Dodge\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you Dodge, you get yourself out of the way of an attack. Dodge rolls don\u8217't include Weapon or Armor Dice, but you can use a Dodge roll to defend against any type of attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Dodge rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} This Specialty is not often used to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Dodge roll can be used against any incoming attack roll.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dodge\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incoming Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Aim, or Brawl Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negate Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Yield Taken\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Move\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Negate Attack:} You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don\u8217't do this, the attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success Points normally.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of +1D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Yield Taken:} If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by spending four Success Points per point of Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Free Move:} You can immediately make a Move action to an adjacent Area without using an action or paying a Drop penalty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Dueling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Dueling skill lets you make attacks using a dueling weapon, such as a sword, a knife, a quarterstaff, or even a pike.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Dueling rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Lunge\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Lunge is a basic attack and can be attempted with any hand-held weapon, and is the most common way of dealing damage to an opponent in a close-up fight. It can be opposed by any Defense specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Lunge rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate a dueling weapon\u8217's quality, remember the names of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone\u8217's fencing style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Swords and polearms, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Lunge can be defended against with any Defense roll.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Parry, Block, or Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Break Weapon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of +1D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Break Weapon:} You snap your target\u8217's blade. You can only do this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails. A broken weapon is useless except as an improvised weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Riposte\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Riposte is a counterattack that can only be attempted after a successful Parry or Feint. By catching your opponent off-guard, you can slip past her normal defenses.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Riposte rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate a Dueling weapon\u8217's quality, remember the names of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone\u8217's fencing style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Daggers and other knives, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Riposte can only be defended against by a Block or Dodge roll, and not by a Parry roll.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Requires:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Successful Parry or Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Block or Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Decrease Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Woundu\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Decrease Advantage:} If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has +1D6 Advantage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Feint\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Feint is a false attack designed to get your opponent to lower her defenses. The primary advantage of a Feint is to build Advantage against your opponent; you can\u8217't usually inflict Wounds directly with a Feint, although you can inflict Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Feint rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate a Dueling weapon\u8217's quality, remember the names of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone\u8217's fencing style.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Nets and whips, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} A Feint roll can be defended against with a Parry or Dodge roll, but not by a Block roll.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feint\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Parry or Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Execute a Riposte\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Disarm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of +1D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Execute a Riposte:} You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only way to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful Parry or Feint.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Disarm:} You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to Parry you. You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Initiative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Initiative skill is used in combat to determine who goes first, as well as to take additional actions during a fight. The order of Initiative is set by a free roll at the beginning of each fight, or when each combatant enters the fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Generally, a character only needs to have ranks in one Initiative specialty, usually corresponding to her highest Attribute Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Automatic Competency:} Player characters are automatically Competent with the Initiative skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Impulse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Impulse specialty is favored by combatants who have high Verve, and is characterized by acting quickly to Seize the Initiative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in order by the Gamemaster from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Impulse\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Seize the Initiative\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interpose\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reprise Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seize the Initiative:} For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at your normal place in the Initiative order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Interpose:} For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone else\u8217's attack, instead of the attacker\u8217's intended target. This can be used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent\u8217's movement but does not redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reprise Attack:} If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the attack. This can\u8217't be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise Attack only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Vigilance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Vigilance is favored by combatants who have high Affinity and who look to protect others, because they are able to Interpose most easily during a fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in order by the Gamemaster from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vigilance\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interpose\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reprise Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Seize the Initiative\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Interpose:} For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone else\u8217's attack, instead of the attacker\u8217's intended target. This can be used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent\u8217's movement but does not redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reprise Attack:} If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the attack. This can\u8217't be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise Attack only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seize the Initiative:} For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at your normal place in the Initiative order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Timing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Timing specialty allows the combatant to Reprise an Attack on a failed roll, and is of most use to those with high Guile.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in order by the Gamemaster from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Timing\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reprise Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Seize the Initiative\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interpose\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reprise Attack:} If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the attack. This can\u8217't be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise Attack only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seize the Initiative:} For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at your normal place in the Initiative order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Interpose:} For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone else\u8217's attack, instead of the attacker\u8217's intended target. This can be used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent\u8217's movement but does not redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Interaction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Interaction skill covers social interactions between individual characters, as well as characters addressing a group.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Automatic Competency:} Player characters are automatically Competent with the Interaction skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} If you and the other parties don\u8217't share a common language, you gain a Drop 2 penalty on all Interaction rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Inspire\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Inspire specialty covers all attempts to instill a particular feeling in another person (or group of people) \u8211- such as to make her angry, enthusiastic, happy, frightened, or sad.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Inspire isn\u8217't a kind of mind control; someone won\u8217't take an action that they are opposed to doing. But you can provoke her to give some kind of reaction to your words.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} If you and the other parties don\u8217't share a common language, you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Recall an inspiring speech from history or fiction, remember the names of great leaders.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} In most situations, an Inspire roll is an automatic success. If you have a language barrier or other Drop Penalty applied, the difficulty increases to Easy (3D6) or higher.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inspire\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic success or standard opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inspiring Speech\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce an Ally\u8217's Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Instill Emotion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Provoke Reaction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inspiring Speech:} Your words start to sway those who hear them. You can create a tag based on an emotional state, with a +1D0 Tag Die. This Tag Die lasts until the end of the scene, and can be used with other Specialties as a Bonus Die when appropriate. You can make one additional Tag with a +1D0 Bonus Die for each success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Tag Die: }One Tag Die created by your inspiring speech improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of skill ranks you have in Interaction (Inspire), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inspire Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce an Ally\u8217's Yield:} If an ally who can hear you has taken Yield, you can reduce it by spending two Success Points per point of Yield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} One opponent who can hear you takes one Yield for every two Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Instill Emotion:} Choose one of the Tags you have active in this scene. That specific Tag Die immediately ends for you. One person who can hear you gains either a Drop Penalty or a Bonus Die on all actions related to that Tag, your choice. For each additional success point you spend, you can affect another person. The Drop Penalty decreases after each time it\u8217's applied, and the Bonus Die decreases in size after each use.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tag Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Inspire Results\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Provoke Reaction:} You cause someone who can hear you to react to your words, even if she doesn\u8217't really want to. Choose one of the Tags you have active in this scene. That specific Tag Die immediately ends for you. The person you\u8217've affected will react on her next turn based on that Tag. You don\u8217't get to choose the specific reaction, and it\u8217's instead based on how she would normally react to such feelings. For example, if you use a Tag Die of Anger, her response might be to attack you, to fire a scathing insult at you, to burst into tears, to order someone else to attack you, to leave the area, or to mock your clothing choices.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Negotiate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Negotiate covers diplomatic attempts to persuade someone, to compromise, or give something up in return for something else. In general, to use Negotiate you must be offering a bargaining chip of some kind, although it need not be a completely fair trade.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} If you and the other parties don\u8217't share a common language, you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time:} A Negotiate roll for something simple, like haggling over goods, takes one minute. More complicated business deals or diplomacy take an hour or more.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate the price of an object, recall details on treaties, remember something the other party might have overlooked.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Contracts, treaties, and other legal documents, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Negotiate rolls are always opposed by the other party\u8217's Negotiate rolls. If there isn\u8217't a party in opposition to you, you probably aren\u8217't in a negotiation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negotiate\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negotiate\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Float a Proposal\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Refine the Offer\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Counter-Offer\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Put it in Writing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reach Compromise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close the Deal\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain the Upper Hand\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Float a Proposal:} You propose a course of action, and create a +1D0 Tag Die based on that proposal. Until the end of the scene, you can use that Tag Die as a Bonus Die on appropriate rolls, including further Negotiate rolls \u8211- or Wealth rolls if you are haggling over a purchase. If you create a new proposal, the old Tag Die ends.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Refine the Offer:} For every two success points you spend, the Tag Die of your existing proposal increases by one die size.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Counter-Offer:} If the other party has a Tag Die, you can decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Tag Die entirely if she has a +1D6 Bonus Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Put It In Writing:} You get the other party to agree to sign a written document after you close the deal.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reach Compromise:} You and the other party come to a compromise that benefits you both equally, more or less, and you close the deal. All Tag Dice created by either party immediately end.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Close the Deal:} You end the negotiation. Whatever you and the other party have agreed upon is how it the terms will remain, and the other party won\u8217't renegotiate terms in this scene. If you are haggling over a purchase, you can use the Tag Die of your proposal as a Bonus Die on your wealth roll; if the other party has a Tag Die, she can add that to the opposition roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain the Upper Hand:} You end the negotiation. You get what you were hoping to gain without major concessions. The other party loses Tag Dice she may have created during the negotiation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Deceive\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Deceive is the ability to tell a believable lie, avoiding telltale quirks and pitfalls that might reveal your duplicity. Lies which are obviously untrue and unbelievable impose a penalty of Drop 1 to Drop 4, at the Gamemaster\u8217's discretion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} If you and the other parties don\u8217't share a common language, you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time:} Deception rolls are made after each new, major claim is made, so could occur after 30 seconds of rambling, or hours of prolonged storytelling.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} This Specialty is not often used to make knowledge rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} An alternate identity or a simple disguise, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Use the Intuition specialty of each person who is listening to the lies.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deceive\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intuition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Think on Your Feet\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Appear Sincere\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Appear Trustworthy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Think on Your Feet:} You come up with something quickly so that you don\u8217't look like you\u8217're obviously making something up. You can create a +1D0 Tag Die based on your lie that you can use as a Bonus Die on appropriate rolls until the end of the scene. Attempts by others to disprove your lie, through logical deduction or knowledge rolls, are made against Easy (3D6) standard opposition.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Appear Sincere:} You lie while giving the impression that you really do believe what you\u8217're saying. For every two success points you spend, the Tag Die of your lie increases by one die size and the difficulty of disproving the lie increases by one step.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Appear Trustworthy:} Even if your lie is later exposed as false, those who heard it still believe you that you didn\u8217't intend to deceive them. Maybe you were mistaken, or they misheard you, or you misspoke.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Magicks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Magicks work in very subtle ways: brewing draughts, weaving charms into clothing, and reading portents. Most characters completely lack knowledge in Magicks, leaving the study up to those who specialize in it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Successfully using a Magicks specialty results in the creation of a Charm die. As with other types of dice, you can have only one Charm die in any dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Weave\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Charmwoven clothing must be specifically created for each character using the Weave specialty, as it involves knowledge of the wearer\u8217's birthstone and other personal qualities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate charmwoven items and identify their charms, determine the specific master charmweaver who created an item of apparel, recall facts related to the creation of cloth and silk.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting: }Articles of clothing, including charmwoven apparel, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Most Weave rolls are made to craft garments. Sensing or restoring a charm is Easy (3D6) standard opposition. An attempt to suppress a or bolster a Charm Die is made against standard opposition corresponding to the size of the Charm Die \u8211- Easy (3D6) for a +1D6 Charm Die, Moderate (3D8) for a +1D8 Charm Die, and so on.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weave\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tailoring Tools or Workshop\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sense Charm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Suppress Charm Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bolster Charm Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Restore Charm Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sense Charm: }You can sense charms woven into clothing that are in the same area as you, starting with the nearest charm to you. You learn the article of clothing that\u8217's encharmed and which Specialty the Charm Die applies to. If you spend another success point, you also learn the size of the Charm Die. For each additional success point you spend, you can sense another charm in your area or an adjacent area. You can choose to skip over any charm created or worn by you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Suppress Charm Die: }You can choose one article of clothing in the same area as you. If that article has a Charm Die, it is reduced by one step. If it has a +1D6 Charm Die, you can remove it entirely. This effect lasts until the end of the current scene. Each additional 2 success points you spend reduces the Charm Die by one step. You can reduce a Charm Die as many steps as you have ranks in Magicks (Weave).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bolster Charm Die:} You can choose one article of clothing in the same area as you. If that article has a Charm Die, it is increased by one step until the end of the scene. You can only increase a Charm Die by one step.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Restore Charm Die: }You can choose one article of clothing in the same area as you. If that article has a Charm Die that has been suppressed or temporarily removed, you can restore the Charm Die to its normal value. Until the end of the scene, that article\u8217's Charm Die can\u8217't be suppressed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Brew\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Brew is the magickal ability to distill enchantments into drinkable draughts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Identify a draught and its effects, recall the names of the master alchemists in a city, describe where exotic ingredients can be found.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting: }Salves, draughts, and other alchemical formulations, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Most Magicks (Brew) rolls are made to create a draught or salve. Mixing a concoction has a standard difficulty of Easy (3D6).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brew\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemy tools or laboratory\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mix a Concoction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apply a Concoction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mix a Concoction:} You hastily mix together volatile chemicals and reagents to produce an immediate reaction. You spend 1 unit of alchemical ingredients and create one of the concoctions listed in Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment\u8221". The concoction has an initial potency level of 1 but increases by 1 for every 2 success points you spend. The concoction lasts until your next turn, after which it becomes inert.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Apply a Concoction:} You apply the effects of your concoction to yourself, your area, an adjacent area, or another person in the same area as you. Each recipient of the effect beyond the first requires that you spend 1 additional unit of alchemical ingredients, with a limit of additional targets equal to your specialty ranks in Magicks (Brew).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Portents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Portents specialty involves reading omens and signs as well as using cards, dice, tea leaves, or astrological charts to determine someone\u8217's future. It also includes placing hexes on people, and creating simple trinkets known as bibelots that ward off hexes and bad luck.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Recall the names of famous seers or witches throughout history, identify when someone is the target of a hex, identify a bibelot\u8217's charm, remember the astrological signs and birthstones.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting: }Astrological charts, bibelots, and divination tools, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} If you read either the general omens around you or a willing subject, the roll is an automatic success and the success points determine the strength of the reading. If you are doing a reading on an unwilling subject or if you are casting a hex on someone, the difficulty is either Easy (3D6) or an opposed Magicks (Portents) roll, whichever is better for the subject.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portents\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Divination tools, astrological charts\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Read Portents\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Accuracy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Precision\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Specificity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cast a Hex\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Read Portents:} You make a general prediction about the next 24 hours. Ask one yes-or-no question, or have the person you\u8217're reading ask a yes-or-no question. You receive an answer which creates a +1D0 Tag Die connected to that answer. Until the prediction comes true or 24 hours passes, the subject of the reading can choose to use the tag as a Bonus Die on any rolls that relate to the answer proving true. Each use of the Tag Die decreases its size by one die size, or ends the prediction if it\u8217's a +1D0 Bonus Die. As long as any prediction is still in effect, the subject can\u8217't be the recipient of another reading.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Accuracy:} The Tag Die increases by one die size, with a limit set by your ranks in Magicks (Portents) as shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portents Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Precision:} The duration of your prediction increases by 24 hours, up to a limit of increases equal to your Magicks (Portents) ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Specificity:} The subject of the reading can ask another yes-or-no question and receive an answer, or ask a question that can be answered with a single noun. This creates an additional +1D0 Tag Die based on the new question, that otherwise functions like the first Tag Die. The maximum number of additional questions is limited to the number of Magicks (Portents) specialty ranks you have.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cast a Hex:} You choose one skill and the subject of your reading becomes cursed on rolls with that skill for the next 24 hours. If your subject is wearing a bibelot for that skill, the hex immediately ends and the bibelot is destroyed. Otherwise, any existing hexes on her end and she gains a Drop 1 penalty on that skill and its specialties. Every time the Drop penalty is applied to one of her rolls, it decreases by 1. When the Drop penalty is reduced to 0, the hex ends. For every two success points you spend, you can increase the initial size of the Drop penalty by 1, with a limit determined by your ranks in Portents as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portents Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Hex Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Hex Penalty\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Medicine\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Medicine skill is used to treat minor injuries, perform major surgery, and work safely with poisonous toxins.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Surgery\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Surgery is a Specialty which can be used to heal injuries which are resistant to the Treat specialty, as well as to perform other surgical procedures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Perform an autopsy to determine the cause of death, recall the names of famous surgeons, diagnose a patient in need of surgery.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Apply the patient\u8217's wounds as a Drop Penalty on your surgery roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} The Surgery specialty uses medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on a surgical procedure to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies: }You can use extra medicine during surgery to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Units of medicine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Healing wounds or minor surgeries are Easy (3D6) standard difficulty. Major surgeries are Moderate (3D8) or higher.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Surgery\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chirurgeon\u8217's Knives or Surgical Theatre\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time, extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Patient Survives\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heal 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Minor Surgical Procedure\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Major Surgical Procedure\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Patient Survives:} Despite the relatively advanced state of Elaran medicine, surgery remains a risky proposition. If you don\u8217't spend one Success Point to ensure the life of the patient, the patient takes one Wound.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Heal 1 Wound:} The patient heals one Wound. This requires that you spend 1 unit of medicine per wound healed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Minor Surgical Procedure:} You perform a minor surgical procedure, such as suturing a wound or the setting of a bone. The patient must rest for 1 day or else gain one Wound the first time she engages in physical activity. A minor procedure expends 2 units of medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Major Surgical Procedure:} You perform a major surgical procedure, such as a Caesarian section, gender confirmation surgery, or removal of the appendix. The patient must rest for 1 week (six days) or else gain one Wound the first time each day that she engages in physical activity. A major procedure expends 5 units of medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Treat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Treat specialty is used to care for those who are injured or sick. After a Wound is taken, only one Treat roll can be made; further Wounds must be healed using the Surgery specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Diagnose a patient as suffering from poison or disease, determine the cause of an injury, recall facts about a known illness and useful folk cures for the same.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Cures for diseases and other medical supplies, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Treating a wound or removing Yield takes one minute, and treating diseases or applying cures takes one hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on treatment to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Treat Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Treat Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies: }You can use extra medicine during treatment to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Units of medicine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing: }You can reduce the time to treat a patient by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush treatment, as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 actions\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} The opposition depends on the severity of the condition being treated. Reducing Yield is an automatic success, with the number of success points determining how many points of Yield are removed. Treating wounds is Easy (3D6), and treating a disease is dependent upon the severity of the disease.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Treat\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chirurgeon\u8217's Knives or Surgical Theatre\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Patient\u8217's Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heal 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Disease Severity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Patient\u8217's Yield:} If someone in the same area as you has taken Yield, you can remove one point of Yield per success point you spend. This expends one unit of medicine, regardless of how many success points you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Heal 1 Wound:} The patient heals one Wound that has been sustained in the last hour. This consumes one unit of medicine for each Wound healed, and requires one minute of time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Heal 1 Wound:} The patient heals one Wound that has been sustained in the last hour. This consumes one unit of medicine for each Wound healed, and requires one minute of time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Disease Severity:} The severity of the disease decreases by one step, or is eliminated if the disease is already of the weakest severity. This consumes one unit of medicine for each severity level decreased.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Poison\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Poison specialty covers the creation, application, and use of various toxic substances as well as antidotes for the same. A target can be poisoned directly, or poison can be applied to a weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Standard Poisons:} The following types poisons are commonly used throughout Elara and Ifran: deadly poison, impairing poison, and sleep poison. See the Equipment chapter for more details.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Identify a poison without being exposed to it, diagnose someone suffering from poison based on the effects, determine whether or not an item of food is safe to consume.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Poisons and antidotes as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Applying poison to your own weapon is an automatic success, with the number of success points determining how many times you can use that application of poison. Directly administering poison to your victim is opposed by her Brawl roll. Adding poison to food or drink is opposed by the highest Observation of whoever might be able to spot you doing the deed. Administering an antidote is based on the potency of the poison.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard opposition or Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison Your Victim\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poisoned Weapon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Administer Antidote\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Avoid Notice\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Poisoned Weapon:} You can add expend one dose of poison and apply it to a Knife, Sword, Polearm, or the arrows for a Bow. For each success point you spend, you can use the poison\u8217's success table on one attack, in addition to the normal success table for your weapon and attack. Your weapon ceases to be poisoned when you make a number of attacks equal to the success points you spent, when you apply a different poison to the weapon, or at the end of the current scene.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Poison Your Victim:} You can use your Success Points to directly injure or debilitate the target by expending one dose of poison. Each additional success point you spend can be used on the poison\u8217's success table against your victim.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Administer Antidote:} You administer an antidote to someone who has been poisoned, expending one dose of antidote. For every two success points you spend, you can reduce the potency of the poison, reduce the duration of the poison, remove 2 Yield inflicted by the poison, or heal 1 Wound inflicted by poison during the current scene.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Avoid Notice:} You apply your poison surreptitiously, hoping to go unseen. The opposition for an Observation roll to spot the poison \u8211- either on your blade, in a drink, or in food \u8211- is Easy (3D6). For every two additional success points, you can increase the difficulty to spot the posion by one step, limited by your specialty ranks in Medicine (Poison) as shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult (3D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Observation Opposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Military\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Military skill includes training in ranged combat and unarmed combat, plus strategic planning. A character with Competency in the Military skill may have served in as a formal member of the military, but it\u8217's not automatic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Brawl\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Brawl specialty can be used to attack in unarmed combat, and also defend against the same. You usually need at least one hand free to make a Brawl attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Brawl rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Holds:} A held combatant receives a Drop Penalty on her Dueling, Parry, and Aim rolls, and cannot Dodge, Run, or Move. The penalty starts at Drop 1 when a hold is first achieved, and increases by 1 every time the hold is increased (see below).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Quarterstaves, clubs, and other bludgeons, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate someone\u8217's unarmed fighting technique after watching her brawl, recall the names of famous pugilists.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brawl\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action or Free Roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Brawl, Parry, or Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negate Brawl Attack\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Achieve or Break Hold\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knockdown\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Disarm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Negate Brawl Attack:} You prevent a Brawl attack from doing any damage to you, and the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don\u8217't do this, the attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success Points normally.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Achieve or Break Hold:} You achieve a hold on your target, or if you are already held, you can break that hold. You can choose to do both in one roll, if you have enough Success Points. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional Success Points you spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a maximum of Drop 4.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knockdown:} Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in her falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. A prone character suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move or Run until she stands up; standing up is a Drop 1 combined action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Disarm:} You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is wielding. You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Aim\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Aim specialty covers all kinds of ranged combat, from firing muskets and bows to throwing daggers. Only Block or Dodge can be used to defend against an Aim attack, and not Parry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Aim rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate the quality of a firearm or bow, identify the type of weapon used to cause a wound, recall the names of famous marksmen.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting: }Bows, crossbows, muskets, and pistols, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Aim\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Block or Dodge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Reload\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knockdown\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Free Reload:} You can reload your weapon if the reload time is Drop 4 or lower\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knockdown:} Your target is knocked prone. A prone character suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move or Run until she stands up. Standing up is a Drop 1 combined action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Strategy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Strategy is the ability to make battle plans, both before and during a fight. Characters with the Strategy specialty are skilled at leading during combat and reading the way a fight is going.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Identify the leader of an army, evaluate a battle plan to discover weaknesses, organize a supply line, recall the names of famous generals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Battle plans, tactical maps, and military orders, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition: }Use the Military (Strategy) roll of your enemy\u8217's leader. If there\u8217's no leader, your roll is an automatic success and the success points you spend are used to determine the effectiveness of your tactics.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strategy\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strategy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Read the Fight\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Tactical Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Decrease Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Give an Order\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Read the Fight:} For each Success Point you spend to Read the Fight, choose one other combatant in the fight. You learn her Competency Die, current Yield, and Wounds taken. Each additional success point allows you to get information about an additional combatant.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Tactical Advantage:} For every two success points you spend, you can do one of the following: reduce an ally\u8217's Yield by 1, increase your advantage, increase an ally\u8217's advantage, or increase an ally\u8217's initiative points by 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Decrease Advantage:} Choose one enemy. If she has Advantage, you can decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has D6 Advantage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Give an Order:} Choose a friendly person you can communicate with, and give her an order that consists of one action. If she chooses to obey the order, she gains a +1D0 Bonus Die for that action, and can immediately take the ordered action (such as an attack, a move, or reloading her weapon), even though it\u8217's not her turn. For every 2 additional success points you spend, the Bonus Die increases by one step, with a limit determined by your ranks in Military (Strategy):\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strategy Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Bonus Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Nature\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Knowledge of the natural world is expressed through Competency in the Nature skill. Nature is a hands-on skill, learned through experience rather than book learning.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Explore\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Explore specialty lets you navigate through the world, on land, sea, or even in the air. When appropriate, you can also use Explore to search for survival needs such as water, food, and shelter. A map of the area, a compass, or a navigator\u8217's astrolabe can provide an Item Die bonus on the roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Recall facts about towns, people, and creatures found in distant lands, evaluate the quality of a sailing ship or airship, chart a route on a detailed map, recall the names of famous explorers and ship captains.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Maps, rafts, shelters, and other survival gear, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Determining directions or finding a shortcut takes one minute, and other uses of Nature (Explore) take 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Under normal circumstances, a Nature (Explore) roll is an automatic success, and the success points determine how well you\u8217've done at your task. Inclement weather or hostile climates have a standard difficulty of Easy (3D6) or higher.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Explore\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Minute or 1 Hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Map or navigation tool\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Determine Directions\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Locate a Landmark\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Find Food and Water\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Find Shelter\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Discover Shortcut\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Determine Directions:} You know which direction is north, and roughly which direction you must travel in order to reach your desired destination.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Locate a Landmark:} You find a notable and unique feature such as a geological formation, ruins of a town, or a burnt tree. This helps to orient you so that you avoid becoming lost. You create a +1D0 Tag Die based on the name of this location, which you can use on rolls to avoid becoming lost. The size of the Tag Die decreases by one step for every two leagues you travel away from the landmark. For every additional 2 success points you spend the initial Tag Die increases by one step, limited by your specialty ranks in Nature (Explore) as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Explore Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Find Food and Water:} You manage to find a source of water, and units of foodstuffs equal to your ranks in Nature (Explore), for every two success points you spend. The food will last for 24 hours unless somehow preserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Find Shelter:} You find a safe place to camp for the night that is secure from weather and other dangers for the next 12 hours, for you and up to 10 other people or horses. You can increase the number you can shelter by 5 people or horses for an additional success point. For every additional success point you spend, you can increase the duration by 6 hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Discover Shortcut:} You discover a way to reach your destination 5% sooner than you expected, often allowing you to intercept another person or group before they arrive. For each additional success point you spend, you decrease your travel time by 5%, up to a limit of one success point per specialty rank of Explore.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Husbandry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Animal handling and crop farming is covered by the Husbandry specialty, along with dealing with animals of all types, including domesticated animals such as cows, dogs, horses, or cats. This skill can also be used with wild animals and naturally occurring plants.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate the quality of a mount, livestock animal, or edible plant, predict the weather over the next couple of days, recall the names of local landowners, identify the properties of an unknown plant or animal.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Leather goods, flexible armor, and cooked meals, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} If you are treating a wounded animal, you have Drop Penalty based on the animal\u8217's wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time:} Controlling an animal or riding a horse takes 1 action, and other uses of Husbandry take 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on farming chores to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Nature (Husbandry), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} You can add the Weapon Die of a Knife when butchering, the Item Die of a domesticated animal when gathering crops, tending flocks, or farming, and the Item Die of chirurgeon\u8217's tools when doing veterinary medicine. For handling a domesticated animal, add the animal\u8217's Training attribute as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} For gathering crops, farming, or butchery, the roll is an automatic success and your success points are used to determine how well you perform the task. Handling one of your own domesticated animals is an automatic success as well.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The standard opposition for using handle animal with a wild animal or an unfriendly domesticated animal is based the higher of its Instinct or Ferocity attributes. Handling an animal with D6 Instinct is Easy (3D6), one with D8 Ferocity is Moderate (3D8), and so on.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handle Animal\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gather Crops\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dairy Farming\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Veterinary Medicine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Butchery\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Teach a New Trick\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Handle Animal:} You can make a domesticated animal perform one of its tricks, go where you want it to go, or otherwise follow your directions. With a wild animal, you can either make it flee or convince it to not attack you and your companions until the end of the scene as long as you don\u8217't approach it. If you\u8217're riding a horse, each Success Point you spend allows you to clear one obstacle such as a fence, hedge, or stream.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you successfully use Handle Animal, you create a +1D0 one-word Tag Die for the animal\u8217's attitude toward you that can be used as a Bonus Die in Nature or Defense checks against that animal. The Tag Die lasts until the end of the scene, and increases by one step for every 2 success points you spend, up to a maximum based on your ranks in Husbandry as shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 (table) Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gather Crops:} Assuming you have access to a field of crops, you can harvest 2 units of foodstuffs. For each additional success point you spend, you can harvest an additional 2 units of foodstuffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dairy Farming:} Assuming you have access to milk cows, chickens, and other farm animals, you can harvest 2 units of foodstuffs. For each additional success point you spend, you can harvest an additional 2 units of foodstuffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Veterinary Medicine:} You can heal one Wound that has been inflicted on an animal in the current scene, or you can decrease the severity of a disease affecting an animal. Each Wound treated or disease severity reduced requires that you spend one dose of medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Butchery:} You slaughter and butcher an animal to create foodstuffs. An animal can provide a number of foodstuffs equal to its yield limit. Farm animals provide an additional 50% more foodstuffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Teach a New Trick:} You can teach a new trick to a domesticated animal. If the animal already knows as many tricks as you have Specialty ranks of Husbandry, or is an old dog, you can\u8217't teach it any new tricks. For a wild animal, domesticating it counts as one of its tricks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Prowl\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Prowl specialty represents stealthy, secretive movement or action, usually taken outdoors where there is sufficient cover or shadows to hide from observers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You make a Prowl roll as an action when you are not hidden and attempt to do so, or as a free roll if you are already out of sight and someone is looking for you. If you move from your location without moving undetected, you must make another Prowl roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds:} Prowl rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Remember old abandoned bandit hideouts, recall the names of famous brigands.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Hiding under optimal conditions (night, no moon, inclement weather) is normally an automatic success. Such situations are rare, however. Instead, most Prowl rolls are Easy (3D6) under ordinary circumstances. Increase the standard difficulty by one step for each of the following conditions: tracked by animals, bright sunlight, lack of cover, quiet location.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prowl\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hide\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lead the Ambush\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Move Undetected\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hide:} You find a place to hide until the end of the scene or you move to a different location, whichever comes first. In order to see you, someone else must make an Observation roll against a standard difficulty of Easy (3D6). For every two additional success points you spend, you increase the difficulty by one step, limited by your ranks in Nature (Prowl):\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prowl Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult (3D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Observation Opposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lead the Ambush:} You can extend the effects of your Prowl roll to one additional ally in the same Area as you for each Success Point you spend on Lead the Ambush. This can include hiding, increasing advantage, or moving undetected.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Move Undetected:} You can take a free move to an adjacent Area and remain unseen if you are already hidden.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Observation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Observation skill encompasses both reading situations and reading people, as well as putting together disparate clues to see the bigger picture.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Automatic Competency:} Player characters are automatically Competent with the Observation skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Perceive\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 With a Perceive roll, you can spot a person in a crowd, listen for one voice in a chorus, notice the smell of burning wood, or detect an ambush before it happens. The Gamemaster can call for Perceive as a free roll, or you can make additional rolls by using your action to examine your surroundings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Accurately describe someone you have seen or heard, or identify her from a description.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition: }Under most circumstances, a Perceive roll is an automatic success and the number of success points determines how well you accomplished the task. The standard opposition for spotting someone or something hidden is determined by the hider\u8217's Nature (Prowl) or Streetwise (Larceny) roll. Trying to Perceive something under difficult circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded tavern, can have a difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Perceive\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll, or 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Notice the Obvious\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Notice Minor Detail\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Notice Hidden Detail\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Notice the Obvious:} You notice something which is pretty easy to spot but not directly in front of you, or you spot someone who is hiding from you. For each additional success point, you spot something else that isn\u8217't directly in front of you or hiding.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Notice Minor Detail:} You notice a small detail about a person, an animal, an object, a vehicle, or an area that most people wouldn\u8217't catch. For every 2 additional success points, you notice another detail about the same thing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Notice Hidden Detail:} You make note of a tiny detail that someone has taken pains to hide, disguise, or eliminate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Intuition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Intuition involves reading subtle cues from your environment, including non-verbal cues from other people. The Gamemaster can call for Intuition as a free roll, or you can make additional rolls by using your action to examine your surroundings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Remember something that you didn\u8217't consciously notice at the time you saw it, recall someone that you met in your childhood.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition: }Under most circumstances, an Intuition roll is an automatic success and the number of success points determines how well you accomplished the task. The standard opposition for sensing someone or something hidden is determined by the hider\u8217's Nature (Prowl) or Streetwise (Larceny) roll, and determining if someone is lying is opposed by their Interaction (Deceive) roll. Trying to intuit something under difficult circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded tavern, can have a difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intuition\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll, or 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Get a Hunch\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sense Danger\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sense Falsehood\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Get a Hunch:} You have a gut feeling about something, and it\u8217's probably right. You create a +1D0 Tag Die that can be used as a Bonus Die on any Observation or Initiative rolls until the end of the scene. The Tag Die is based on one word picked by the Gamemaster. For each additional success point, the Gamemaster adds another word to the Tag. For every 2 additional success points, you increase the Tag Die by one step, with a limit based on your ranks in Observation (Intuition) as shown by the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intuition Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sense Danger:} You can identify one or more sources of immediate danger that aren\u8217't readily apparent, including an ambush. Every two Success Points you spend spots another potential source of harm.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sense Falsehood:} You can tell when someone is lying to you, picking up on her unconscious tells. You don\u8217't know what the truth is, but you do know you\u8217're not hearing it now. For the rest of the scene, you know when she\u8217's telling you the truth and when she\u8217's not.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Deduce\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Deduce specialty lets you size up a situation and formulate a scenario in which they make sense, as provided by the Gamemaster. This will always be a supplement to your own roleplaying and decision-making processes while playing the game; it is not meant to substitute for player ingenuity. Deduce can also be used to analyze clues and spot falsehoods.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Remember the solution to a puzzle you\u8217've solved before, decipher a coded message, recall the names of famous detectives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition: }Under most circumstances, a Deduce roll is an automatic success and the number of success points determines how well you accomplished the task. The standard opposition for detecting someone or something hidden is determined by the hider\u8217's Nature (Prowl) or Streetwise (Larceny) roll, and determining if someone is lying is opposed by their Interaction (Deceive) roll. Trying to Deduce something under difficult circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded tavern, can have a difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deduce\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free Roll, or 1 action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recognize Clue\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reach Simple Conclusion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Infer Greater Plan\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reach Complex Conclusion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recognize Clue:} You realize that something in your current situation is out of place or doesn\u8217't add up. You create a +1D0 Tag Die that you can use on Observation and Streetwise rolls until the end of the current scene. The Gamemaster will tell you what the Tag is, but won\u8217't tell you what it means. For 2 additional points you can increase the Tag Die by one step, to a limit based on your ranks in Observation (Deduce) as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deduce Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reach Simple Conclusion:} You draw a basic conclusion from the available facts. You need to have recognized at least one clue to reach a conclusion. The conclusion will be simple and straightforward, a la Ockham\u8217's razor, but is not guaranteed to be correct. Each time you find another clue, you automatically know whether it fits your simple conclusion or not.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Infer Greater Plan:} You can determine whether or not something was deliberately done, and if so, become aware that there is more to the situation than what appears. If you witness more of this plan in action, you will automatically know that it\u8217's part of the same scheme, even if you don\u8217't yet know the role it plays.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reach Complex Conclusion:} You draw together several clues to form a more complex scenario that fits the facts as you understand them. The complex conclusion is guaranteed to be more accurate than a simple conclusion, but it may not include all the variables and thus may be subject to misunderstanding or inaccuracies. Each time you find another clue or witness more of a plan, you automatically know how to include it in your complex conclusion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Science is a skill that covers the use, repair, and creation of advanced technology and complex mathematics, from time watches to airships, from repeating cannons to wing-gliders. The Blackpowder specialty also covers the use of explosives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Blackpowder\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Blackpowder specialty is used to work with explosives of all types, as well as the rare phlogistone material that allows airships to soar through the sky. Skilled powderworkers are employed by militaries, by craftsmen, and by airship crews.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Blackpowder roll is used to fire cannons and throw grenades, which cause explosive damage to all within a given Area or to structures such as buildings or ships. Although pistols and muskets use blackpowder to fire their ammunition, the Military (Aim) skill is used for those hand-held weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Explosion Damage:} An explosion weapon does damage to everything inside a given Area. More powerful explosions also do damage in adjacent Areas, and even targets up to two Areas away for the most powerful explosions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The person who initiated the explosion makes a Blackpowder roll as an automatic success to set the base damage and the range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Anyone in an area affected by the explosion makes a Block or Dodge roll that also is an automatic success. For one success point on the Block or Dodge roll, a target gains one less point of Yield, and for three successes she takes one less Wound.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block or Dodge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Explosion)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Free roll\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor die or Shield die for Block rolls\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Take 1 Less Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Take 1 Less Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Evaluate the quality of a cannon or grenade, describe the process used to create blackpowder or phlogistone, remember, remember the 5th of Frimaire.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Phlogistone furnaces, cannons, grenades, fireworks, and other uses of blackpowder.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounds: }Blackpower rolls with explosive weapons are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time:} Firing a loaded weapon or detonating charges takes one action. Setting or disarming explosives takes one minute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Weapon Die as an Item Die when using an explosive weapon, or the Item Die of repair tools if setting, disarming, or detonating explosives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time setting or disarming a bomb to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Blackpowder), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Minute Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing: }You can reduce the time to set or disarm a bomb by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the task, as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 actions\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Minute Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} When using an explosive weapon or detonating charges, the Blackpowder roll is an automatic success and the success points are used to select a target area and set the base damage of the explosion. For setting or disarming explosives, the standard opposition is based on the bomb\u8217's Explosion Dice.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action, or 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon die or repair tools\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hit An Area\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Damage +1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Set Timed Fuse\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Detonate Charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expand Radius\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Disarm Explosives\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hit An Area:} You fire an explosive weapon into an area adjacent to your own. For each additional success point you spend, you can move the center of the explosion another area away from you, out to the maximum range of the weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Damage +1 Wound:} For every two success points you spend, increase the base damage by 1 Wound. This increase to the Wound damage is limited to twice the number of ranks you have in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Set Timed Fuse:} You set a timed fuse in your area to detonate within a given period of time. The default fuse for a standard bomb is one to 10 rounds, with the exact number of rounds being up to you. The bomb detonates at the end of the chosen round, after everyone else has acted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Detonate Charges:} You immediately detonate a bomb in your own area or an adjacent area. Alternately, you can use a Pistol or Musket within its normal range or a thrown flame within Short range (1 to 2 Areas) to perform this action. Add the Pistol or Musket\u8217's Weapon Die as an Item Die, and apply any Drop Penalties due to the weapon\u8217's normal range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Expand Radius: }When setting explosives or firing artillery, you can extend the radius of the blast by one step. \u8220"Close\u8221" becomes \u8220"Adjacent\u8221", \u8220"Adjacent\u8221" becomes \u8220"Short\u8221", and so on, out to the maximum radius of the explosives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Disarm Explosives:} You disarm a bomb or other explosive device that has not yet detonated.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Clockworks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Clockworks specialty allows you to create, repair, and customize clockwork devices. For more details, see the list of clockwork devices and components in Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Identify the functions and components of a clockwork device, recall the names of famous mechanicians, determine what components of a device are malfunctioning, read and understand plans drawn by other clockworkers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting: }Clockwork devices, components, power sources, and other mechanical contrivances, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time: }It takes one action to keep a device together or draw more power from it. Sabotaging a device takes 1 minute. To repair a device or salvage components from it takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bonus Die:} If you have plans for the device you\u8217're working on, you can add the bonus die from those plans to the roll, in addition to any applicable Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time repairing, salving, or sabotaging a device to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Clockworks), as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworks Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworks Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing: }You can reduce the time to repair, salvage, or sabotage a device by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the task, as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 actions\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} The standard opposition for working with a clockwork device is normally Easy (3D6). If you created or assembled the device yourself, the roll is an automatic success and the success points are used to determine how well you accomplished the task. For each component in a device that is beyond your ability to create, based on your Science (Clockworks) skill, increase the standard opposition by one step.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworks\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action, 1 minute, or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tools or Workshop Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plans, extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Keep It Together\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 We Need More Power\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repair 1 Malfunction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Salvage a Component\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sabotage Device\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Keep It Together:} You manage to patch the device together long enough that one malfunction doesn\u8217't affect it until the end of the next round. For each additional success point, you increase the duration by another round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b We Need More Power: }You manage to coax an extra point of power out of a device\u8217's power source for every two success points you spend, with a limit of extra power equal to your ranks in Science (Clockworks). The increased power lasts until you spend it or the end of the next round. At the end of the scene, the device gains one malfunction for every time you boosted the power output.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Repair 1 Malfunction:} You fix the device and remove a malfunction in one of its components. Each malfunction removed requires the expenditure of one unit of supplies of a type used to create the component.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Salvage a Component:} You can remove one functioning component or power source from the device, for use in later devices; this requires at least an hour\u8217's worth of work. You can\u8217't salvage a malfunctioning or destroyed component. Alternately, you can destroy a component or power source to regain one unit of supplies of a type used to create the component.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sabotage Machine:} You add a malfunction to one component in a device. If you spend an extra success point, you can remove the malfunction later by taking a single action to do so.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Calculus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Calculus specialty includes all manner of calculations of numbers, from adding sums to deriving mathematical equations. Experienced merchants and moneylenders also use Calculus regularly in order to balance their books, and mariners use Calculus to create their charts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Read and understand the meaning behind complex equations, recall the names of famous mathematicians and scientists.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Calculations, clockwork plans, and mathematical theorems as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Use Easy (3D6) for calculations done in a well-equipped workshop, or Moderate (3D8) for field work with paper and ink. Doing calculations in your head is Hard (3D10).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculus\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tools or Workshop Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Simple Calculation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Analysis\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Complex Calculation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Simple Calculation:} You perform a simple calculation such as determining the size or speed of an object.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Analytics:} You create a +1D0 Tag Die based one specialty that can be used as a Bonus Die until the end of the scene. The Tag Die can only be used in a roll that uses quantities, measurements, prices, or other numbers. Examples include navigating with Nature (Explore), cooking food with Nature (Husbandry), haggling over a price with Interaction (Negotiate), or aiming a cannon with Science (Blackpowder). For every two additional success points you spend, you can increase the Tag Die by one size, with a limit based on your ranks in Science (Calculus) as shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculus Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Complex Calculation:} This is a more complicated type of mathematics, usually involving polynomials or integrals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise skill covers the ability to survive and prosper in a medium or large city, sometimes relating to people of varying Social Ranks. Streetwise characters are savvy to the right places in town to get things done, and are good at trash-talking their opponents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Banter\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Verve Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Banter specialty lets you toss quips and insults both in and out of a fight, trying to provoke a reaction of some kind. You can use Banter to demoralize your foes or impress your audience.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} You can only use Banter on someone who can understand the language you\u8217're speaking.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Remember embarrassing details about someone else\u8217's personal life, recall a scathing retort from a line of a play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time:} Most uses of Banter take only 1 action to perform, although spreading rumors takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time spreading rumors to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Streetwise (Banter), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Banter Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} When directly confronting someone, your Banter roll is opposed by their own Banter roll. If you\u8217're spreading rumors, the standard opposition is Easy (3D6) in a medium city and Moderate (3D8) in a large city.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Banter\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action, 1 hour, or free action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Target\u8217's Banter\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Decrease Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Advantage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Spread Rumor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Enrage Opponent\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Decrease Advantage:} If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has D6 Advantage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Advantage:} You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don\u8217't already have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for every three Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Spread Rumor:} You spread scurrilous yet believable lies about a rival. You create a +1D0 Tag Die based on a person, a place, an animal, or an object involved in some scandalous way with your rival. You can use the Tag Die as a Bonus Die on Interaction, Intuition, and Streetwise rolls against your rival for 1 week (six days). The rumor can\u8217't be easily traced back to you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For one additional success point, you can extend the duration by one day. For every 2 additional success points you spend, you can increase the Tag Die by one step, to a maximum value based on your ranks in Streetwise (Banter) as shown in the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Banter Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Tag Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Enrage Opponent:} If you aren\u8217't in a fight already, you provoke your opponent into starting combat. If you are in combat, your opponent will focus on you to the exclusion of other targets, until you\u8217're dead, unconscious, or the fight ends.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Carouse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Affinity Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Carouse specialty involves frequenting establishments where liquor is served and tongues accordingly flow more freely. Carousing in a tavern or bar is a good way to pick up on the local rumors, and maybe even learn some secrets from a drunken informant.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Language:} If you don\u8217't speak one of the local languages, you get a Drop 2 penalty on Carouse rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knowledge Rolls:} Locate the best (or worst) taverns in town, identify the type and origin of liquor with a taste, recall your companion(s) in previous drunken trysts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafting:} Beer, ale, wine, and other alcoholic beverages, as described in Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} If you buy a round of drinks for everyone in a tavern, you can add the highest die in its cost to your Carousing roll as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time carousing to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Streetwise (Carousing), as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carousing Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} The larger the city, the easier it is for you to get information or make a connection without drawing too much attention to yourself. In anything smaller than a large town, the standard opposition is Hard (3D10). In a large town or small city, the opposition is Moderate (3D8), and in a large city, the opposition is Easy (3D6). If you go carousing in your usual haunts \u8211- because sometimes you want to go where everybody knows your name, and they\u8217're always glad you came \u8211- the roll is an automatic success and the success points are used to determine how well you performed the task.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carouse\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hold Your Liquor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Learn Common Rumor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Learn Rare Rumor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Find a Companion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Learn Uncommon Secret\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Learn Rare Secret\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hold Your Liquor:} You don\u8217't suffer ill effects from the over-consumption of alcoholic beverages.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Learn Common Rumor:} learn one of the common rumors that is circulating around town, which may or may not be true.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Learn Rare Rumor:} You learn a rare rumor that comes from only one or two sources, but which still may or may not be true.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Find a Companion:} You find someone with whom to spend the evening \u8211- be that an old soldier telling war stories, a romantic partner of a gender of your choice, or a friendly bartender to hear your tale of woe. You can locate them easily and enjoy their company another night for the next week (6 days), and can increase that duration by one week for each additional success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:}You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Learn Uncommon Secret:} You learn a secret that is not commonly known by the general public, such as the name of the duchess\u8217's mistress.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Learn Rare Secret:} You learn a secret that is known to only a few in town, such as the location of the secret entrance to the baroness\u8217's vaults.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Larceny\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guile Specialty}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Larceny specialty is used for criminal endeavors, primarily theft. You use Larceny rolls not only to steal objects but also fence them and to purchase stolen goods on the black market.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Knowledge Rolls: | Estimate the value of a stolen object, evaluate the |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 quality of a lock or door, recall the names and rap sheets of famous criminals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Crafting: | Locks, traps, alarms, and forgeries, as described in |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Chapter 10, \u8220"Crafting.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing: }You can reduce the time to perform a Larceny roll by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how quickly you rush, as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 actions\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Minute Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} For poor traps, alarms, and locks, use Easy (3D6). For | average obstacles, use Moderate (3D8). For high-quality obstacles, use Difficult (3D10). For extremely complex obstacles, use Very Difficult (3D12).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} When trying to steal something, use the highest | Observation specialty of whomever might see you.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Larceny\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition or Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repair tools when working with obstacles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Case the Joint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Steal Something\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bypass Obstacle\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gain 1 Style Point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Install Obstacle\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Case the Joint:} | You look around your own Area or an adjacent Area and learn one of the following pieces of information:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The nearest exit, and whether it\u8217's locked\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The most valuable object you could carry, and whether it\u8217's unsecured\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The location of the nearest guard or other observer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The location and trigger of a trap or alarm\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each additional Success Point you spend can tell you a different piece of information, or the next item down within the same category. For example, a second Success Point could tell you the second nearest exist, the second-most valuable object, the location of the second-nearest observer, or the location of an additional trap.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Steal Something:} You can palm an unattended small item in your Area without being seen. For an extra 2 success points, you can remove a small item from the pocket of someone in the same Area as you. If you spend an additional 2 success points, you can move it to your pocket or the pocket of someone else in your Area.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bypass Obstacle:} You can pick a lock, bypass a trap, or disable an alarm in your Area that would otherwise prevent you from engaging in criminal activity. If you spend one additional success point, you can reset the obstacle to become active again once you have left the Area.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gain 1 Style Point:} You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three Style Points at any time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Install Obstacle:} You can set a trap, alarm, or lock in your own area to trigger once you have left the Area. An Easy (3D6) Observation roll is required for someone to notice the trap. For each additional 2 success points you spend, the difficulty of the Observation roll increases by one step, limited by the number of skill ranks you have in Larceny as shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Larceny Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult (3D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Observation Opposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Crafting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As described in Chapter 4, \u8220"Skills & Specialties,\u8221" characters can use most specialties in order to craft items related to that specialty. The requirements for crafting are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You need to spend time.} The time varies \u8211- minutes, hours, days, weeks. You can\u8217't craft more than 8 hours in a day. (Lutetia\u8217's unions are quite strong.) You may be able to increase or decrease the time to craft an item, to affect your success at crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You need tools to work.} If you don\u8217't have the right tools, you at least need something that can function as the right tools, even if you don\u8217't get an Item Die from the makeshift tool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You need at least one specialty rank.} You can\u8217't make a crafting roll based on the skill alone. Each further specialty rank adds new items you can craft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You need to expend supplies.} Supplies are counted in \u8220"units\u8221", an abstracted measure of the raw material you have on hand. In most cases, you can\u8217't substitute something else, but check with your MJ.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You need to make a specialty roll.} If you\u8217've met all the other requirements listed above, you automatically succeed on the roll and craft something. The purpose of the roll is to determine how well of a job you did on the crafting. The more success points you spend, the better the final product. You can\u8217't gain style points on crafting rolls.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Extra Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes you can spend more supplies than you need in order to craft a superior item. You could create a larger or more ornate version of an item, or perhaps simply make several prototypes before eventually getting it right.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the crafting Specialty has an \u8220"Extra Supplies\u8221" entry, you can use more materials than needed while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in the Specialty, as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Units of Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Extra Time\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Taking your time to craft an item means you can check and re-check your work at every step of the way, and the extra crafting time allows for more careful work.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the description of the crafting specialty has an \u8220"Extra Time\u8221" entry, you can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in the Specialty, as shown on the following tables:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 hours (1 day)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16 hours (2 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32 hours (4 days)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Hour Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 days\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 days (1 week)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 days (2 weeks)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 days (4 weeks)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 days (6 weeks)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time for a One-Day Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Repairs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you can create something, you can repair it as well. A damaged object gains Malfunctions in the same way that a person gains Wounds. In terms of game rolls, the object has a certain Drop penalty applied whenever it\u8217's used \u8211- Drop 1 for each Malfunction \u8211- or one of its functions simply stops operating.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The time to repair an object depends on the time it would take to create a new one of the same type, as shown on the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Crafting Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repair Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 day\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Repair Time\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can take extra time or rush the repair if you are able to do the same when creating the item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As with normal crafting rolls, you automatically succeed. Each success point gained reduces the Drop penalty by one, or restores one function to working order. For every complete set of three Malfunctions you repair, you have to spend 1 unit of any type of supplies that would be used to create such an item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Rushing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You don\u8217't always have the luxury of time when crafting. Perhaps there\u8217's only 30 minutes until the brigands arrive and you still need to build that net-flinging mechanical trap you\u8217've been planning out in your head. In such a situation, you can rush your work to get it done in time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the crafting Specialty has a \u8220"Rushing\u8221" entry, you can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting, as shown on the following table:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing also increases the opposition from an automatic success to Easy (3D6). If you fail on a rushed crafting roll, you expend one unit of resources as appropriate for your task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 seconds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 actions\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Minute Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Hour Task\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Completion Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 Hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Hours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rushing a One-Day Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Success Limits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You must have at least one rank in a Specialty to be able to craft with that Specialty. However, a single specialty rank limits the quality of the item to a basic work. The more specialty ranks you have, the higher potential you can create.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each Specialty\u8217's crafting description details the success limits for crafted items. The maximum values for Item Dice, Charm Dice, Bonus Dice, and the Standard Opposition (for attempts to escape or undo your creation) are shown in the following table. The applicable columns of the table are repeated with each Specialty\u8217's crafting description.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialty Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charm Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult (3D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Success Limits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The raw materials used in crafting are known as \u8220"supplies\u8221". Supplies are measured in terms of \u8220"units\u8221" \u8211- each unit of supplies is an abstract amount of the materials for making the simplest item of a given type.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Supplies can be purchased as shown in the following table. All supplies can be bought in bulk, as described in Chapter 7, \u8220"Wealth Rolls.\u8221"\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Draughts, salves, concoctions, poison, medicine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Art media\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Works of art\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder weapons, phlogistone components\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork devices and components\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapons, armor, clockwork gears, casings\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fabric\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charmweaving\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foodstuffs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cooking, eating\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medicine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Surgery, treat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Writing materials\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reports, written works of art, battle plans\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Alchemical ingredients:} Chemicals, herbs, rare salts, parts of animals, and other materials used to create salves, draughts, poison, and medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Art media:} Supplies for creating works of art, ranging from canvas and paints to sculpturing clay and marble blocks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Blackpowder charges:} Units of blackpowder that can create explosive weapons or be purified to produce phlogistone.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Clockwork gears:} The parts needed to create clockwork components that are then assembled into clockwork devices.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crucible steel:} Worked metal that can used to make weapons, armor, clockwork gears, and more.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fabric:} Cloth, lace, thread, silk, dyes, leather, buttons, and other materials for making clothing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Foodstuffs:} Grains, fruit, meat, cheeses, sugar, eggs, bread, and other materials for cooking. One unit of uncrafted foodstuffs is enough to feed one person for one day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Medicine:} Medicine, medicinal herbs, and other medical supplies used to treat injuries, cure diseases, create antidotes, and perform surgery.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Writing materials:} Paper and ink, used in creating reports, plans, and written works of art.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Scrounging\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have neither the necessary supplies on hand nor the ability to purchase more, you can spend your time scrounging \u8211- looking in refuse bins for art supplies, junk piles for crucible steel, discarded trimmings for fabric, or roadkill and old fruit for foodstuffs. Every two hours spent scrounging produces one unit of supplies \u8211- as long as your MJ agrees there are such supplies to be found. If you\u8217're lost in the middle of a frozen tundra, you probably can\u8217't find blackpowder charges just waiting for you to come along.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Tag Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As described in Chapter 4, \u8220"Skills & Specialties\u8221", Tag Dice are a type of Bonus Dice that are tied to a specific concept. This could be a single word, an emotion, a Passion, a phrase, or other abstract constructions. The crafting description for each Specialty describes how each Tag is created, what you can associate each Tag with, and how you can increase the Bonus Die size of the Tag.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if you create a painting of Bentheim Castle as seen from a grassy meadow, you could assign a Tag of \u8220"Peaceful.\u8221" The Tag Die starts at +1D0, and for every 2 success points, you can increase the size of that die. You can also use success points to add a different Tag, such as \u8220"Loyalty.\u8221" These additional dice also start at +1D0.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Tag Die can be added to a dice pool as a Bonus Die whenever it makes sense in the story \u8211- so if you\u8217're trying to calm down a visiting dignitary, you might seat her under the painting and add the Peaceful tag to your Interaction (Negotiate) dice pool. Alternately, if you\u8217're trying to inspire the soldiers of Bentheim Castle to stand firm and not desert in the face of the enemy, you may want to make your Interaction (Inspire) roll when you stand in front of the painting of the castle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Weapon Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you craft a weapon, it\u8217's assumed to be a \u8220"stock\u8221" version of that weapon as described in Chapter 8, \u8220"Equipment.\u8221" If you want to add something extra to a crafted weapon, you can add a Weapon Quality to that weapon. Each specialty\u8217's crafting description lists which qualities can be given to each type of weapon. The maximum number of Weapon Qualities you can add to any given weapon equals your rank in the crafting Specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rather than repeating the descriptions of Weapon Qualities in each crafting specialty, they\u8217're listed here for easy reference. You can\u8217't add the same Weapon Quality twice to a single weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cavalry:} A weapon with the Cavalry quality must be used with your Main Hand. If you are using this weapon while riding a mount, you can substitute the mount\u8217's Item Die for your Weapon Die against an unmounted opponent.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defending:} You can use this weapon to make a Defense (Parry) roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type of weapon usually can\u8217't be used for parrying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Double-Barreled:} You can fire twice, once per barrel, without reloading. If you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the Weapon Die increases by one step, but you take a Drop 1 penalty because it\u8217's harder to aim. Reloading each barrel separately gives the normal Drop penalty for the unaltered weapon, and reloading both barrels is a Drop 4 combined action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Extended Long Range:} The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at Long range. This can only be applied to weapons which can\u8217't normally be used at Long range, but which can be used at Medium range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Extended Medium Range:} The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at Medium range. This can only be applied to weapons which can\u8217't normally be used at Medium range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b High-Caliber:} Increase the Weapon Die by one step. The Drop penalty for reloading the weapon increases by 1, and the Drop penalty at Long range increases by 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lightened:} Decrease the Weapon Die by one step. If the unaltered weapon could be used in your main hand, you can now use it in either. If the weapon required two hands to use, it can now be used with just the main hand. You can\u8217't lighten a weapon that\u8217's been weighted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Point Blank:} Decrease the Drop Penalty for Close range by 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Quickloading:} Decrease the Drop Penalty for reloading this weapon by 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reach:} The weapon can be used to attack into an adjacent area as well as your own.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Responding:} The weapon can be used to make a Dueling (Riposte) roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type of weapon usually can\u8217't be used for riposting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rifled:} Reduce the Drop Penalty at Medium range by 1 and at Long range by 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sparring:} You can use this weapon to make a Military (Brawl) roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though weapons usually can\u8217't be used with Brawl.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Success Table: Specialty (Option)} You add an option for spending success points to a specific Success Table. The details for each option are described later in this section.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Throwable:} You can throw this weapon at a target using the Military (Aim) skill and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type of weapon usually can\u8217't be thrown. The weapon has no Drop penalty at Close range, Drop 1 at Short range, and Drop 3 at Medium range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weighted:} Increase the Weapon Die by one step. If the weapon could be used in either hand, it now is only usable in your main hand. If the unaltered weapon required your main hand, it now requires both hands. You can\u8217't weight a weapon that\u8217's been lightened.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Success Table Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Success Table: {\i Specialty} quality adds additional options to the indicated success table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Qualities\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Basket Hilt (Decrease Advantage)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Retort (Execute a Riposte)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Entangling\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tripping (Knockdown)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Unhorse\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wounding (Inflict 1 Wound)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yielding (Inflict 4 Yield)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Disarming\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon-Breaking\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Basket Hilt:} If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has +1D6 Advantage. Weapons with this quality are designed for parrying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Disarming:} You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to attack you or the weapon she\u8217's using to Parry your attack. (This can\u8217't be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free. Weapons with this quality are designed for disarming opponents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Entangling:} You successfully catch your opponent with your weapon, holding them in place. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional Success Points you spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a maximum of Drop 4. Your opponent can escape by making a simple check against Standard Opposition, usually using Brawl or a weapon attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Retort:} You can make a Riposte attack. Weapons with this quality are designed for parrying and allow a Riposte to be made for a lower cost than usual.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tripping:} Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. Weapons with this quality are designed to pull an opponent off her feet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unhorse:} If your target is riding a mount, they fall off that mount and end up prone. Unhorsing an opponent can result in them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. In addition, your mount can make a trample attack right now for free, if it has that quality. Standing up is a Drop 1 combined action, and remounting is an additional Drop 3 penalty. Weapons with this quality are designed for dismounting opponents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon-Breaking:} You snap your target\u8217's blade or hilt. You can only do this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails, or if you are performing a Parry yourself. Weapons with this quality are designed for catching and destroying weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounding:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying. Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower cost than usual.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Yielding:} Your opponent takes four Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out. Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Yield for a lower cost than usual.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Workrooms\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Basic sets of handheld tools are described in Chapter 8, \u8220"Equipment,\u8221" and can be used as an Item Die on appropriate crafting rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 However, most serious crafting work is done in some kind of dedicated room or outbuilding. Such workrooms have everything you\u8217'd find in a set of tools, plus additional equipment, furniture, and resources for each task. These workrooms can provide an Item Die, as shown on the following table. As you can only have one Item Die per dice pool, you can\u8217't combine the Item Die from a set of tools with the Item Die from a workroom.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artist\u8217's Studio\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Kitchen\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Laboratory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Library\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medical Theatre\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Observatory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 S\u233?ance Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smithy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Workshop\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Workrooms\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most workrooms are only available in cities, although some smaller towns might be able to provide an artist\u8217's studio, a kitchen, a s\u233?ance room, or a smithy. Setting up a workroom takes 8 hours of work, although that can be done by either one person or divided among several.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Superior workrooms can be purchased for twice the listed cost and an Item Die of one step higher. A superior kitchen costs 4D8 and gives a +1D10 Item Die on rolls for cooking. Superior workrooms take 20 hours to set up and can only be acquired in large cities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Crafting Rolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following tables are sorted by Specialty name and describe what can be crafted with each Specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Aim\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft bows, muskets, and pistols using the Military (Aim) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create bows if you have Bow Prowess, muskets if you have Musket Prowess, and pistols if you have Pistol Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Military (Aim).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Aim\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Short Bow\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Pistol\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Bow\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Pistol\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Light Musket\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Bow Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Pistol Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Musket Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Musket\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Short Bow:} You create any bow with a Weapon Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Bow (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any bow a Weapon Die of +1D8 or higher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Pistol (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any pistol with a Weapon Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Pistol (2 units of crucible steel):} You create any pistol with a Weapon die of +1D8 or higher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Light Musket (2 units of crucible steel):} You create any musket with a Weapon die of +1D8 or lower.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Musket (4 units of crucible steel):} You create any musket with a Weapon Die of +1D10 or higher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Bow Quality:} You can give the bow one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Defending, Extended Long Range, Point Blank, Quickloading, Success Table: Aim (Entangling, Wounded, Yielding). The bow can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Pistol Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the pistol one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Double-Barreled, Extended Medium Range, High-Caliber, Point Blank, Quickloading, Specialty Table: Aim (Wounding). The pistol can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Musket Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the musket one of the following qualities: Defending, Double-Barreled, Extended Long Range, High-Caliber, Point Blank, Quickloading, Rifled, Success Table: Aim (Tripping, Unhorse, Wounding). The musket can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Arts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Culture (Arts) specialty allows you to create works of art. The types of works include drawings, paintings, poetry, sculptures, plays, songs, opera, novellas, or even cake decorating.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} The base time depends on the type of artistic endeavor. Most simple works of art will take a minimum of 1 hour, such as Writing materials a poem, composing a melody, or sketching a drawing. Sculptures, paintings, novellas, acts of plays, chapters of novels, and other longer forms have a base time of 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your artisan tools or artist\u8217's studio to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} art media are usually required, although poetry, plays, novellas, and songs require Writing materials supplies, and cake decorating requires foodstuffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Culture (Arts).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arts\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour or 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan tools or artist\u8217's studio\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 art media or Writing materials supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Artwork\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add a Tag\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Artwork\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Material Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Create Forgery\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pi\u232?ce de R\u233?sistance!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Artwork (1 unit of art media):} You create a basic item of art. Choose a one-word Tag, usually associated with an emotion, place, or concept. The Tag has a Bonus Die of +1D0, and can be used when displaying or performing the work of art.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add a Tag:} You can add another Tag to your artwork. The new Tag has a Bonus Die of +1D0.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Artwork (1 unit of art media):} The Bonus Die of one Tag improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Culture (Arts).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Material Cost:} You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll by one unit of art media.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Create Forgery (1 unit of art media):} You make a copy of someone else\u8217's artwork. It\u8217's indistinguishable from the original except on close examination. The forgery has no Tags attached, but you can use success points to add a Tag. The Standard Opposition to an Arts or Perception roll to detect the work as a forgery is Easy (3D6). For every 2 additional success points you spend, the difficulty increases by one step, limited by your number of ranks in Culture (Arts).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pi\u232?ce de R\u233?sistance!:} You create a work of art that will be spoken of for decades, if not centuries. Any Tag Die on the work of art is automatically maximized when used as a Bonus Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Blackpowder\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft blackpowder weapons such as grenades and cannons. You can also work with phlogistone to create phlogistone furnaces or other uses of phlogistone.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Working with blackpowder typical requires one hour, while working with phlogistone takes one day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools, smithy, or workshop to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Blackpowder charges are required for all crafting with this specialty, and crucible steel for most uses. In addition, many types of explosives require additional materials as shown on the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1803\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Additional Materials\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 units of alchemical ingredients, 1 unit of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, heavy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, mining\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units of alchemical supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, structure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 units of blackpowder charges, 2 units of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of alchemical ingredients, 1 unit of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, blackpowder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, chain\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges, 1 unit of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, round\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges, 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1803\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Crafting Blackpowder Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour, or 1 day (varies)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy, or workshop\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder charges and crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Fireworks\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Grenade\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Bomb\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Cannon Shot\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Cannon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Cannon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Create Phlogistone Furnace\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Fireworks (1 unit of blackpowder charges):} You create a number of fireworks equal to your ranks in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Grenade (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any grenade. You must also spend an additional amount of supplies as noted in the table above.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Bomb (2 unit of blackpowder charges, 1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any bomb. You must also spend an additional amount of supplies as noted in the table above.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Cannon Shot (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any type of cannon shot. You must also spend an additional amount of supplies as noted in the table above.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Cannon (2 units of blackpowder charges, 3 units of crucible steel):} You create any cannon up to furniture scale in size, or a hand mortar. If the cannon is furniture scale, spend an additional 3 units of crucible steel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Cannon (5 units of blackpowder charges, 20 units of crucible steel):} You create any cannon of room scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Phlogistone Furnace (12 units of blackpowder charges, 10 units of crucible steel):} You create a phlogistone furnace with an Item Die of +1D10. You must have at least +4 ranks in Science (Blackpowder). If you have +5 ranks, you can spend an additional 2 success points, 3 units of blackpowder charges, and 5 units of crucible steel to create a furnace with a +1D12 Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft Rigid Armor using the Block specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create rigid armor if you have Rigid Armor Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting armor takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating armor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Defense (Block).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your armor by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Metal Item\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Rigid Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improved Rigid Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Superior Rigid Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Metal Item (1 or more units of crucible steel):} You create a metal item such as tailoring tools.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Rigid Armor (2 units of crucible steel):} You create any rigid armor with an Armor Die of +1D8 or lower.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improved Rigid Armor (4 units of crucible steel):} You create any rigid armor with an Armor Die of +1D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Superior Rigid Armor (6 units of crucible steel):} You create any rigid armor with an Armor Die of +1D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Brawl\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft cudgels using the Military (Brawl) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create cudgels if you have Cudgel Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating cudgels.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Military (Brawl).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brawl\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Light Cudgel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Cudgel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Cudgel Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Light Cudgel:} You create any cudgel with a Weapon Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Cudgel (2 units of crucible steel):} You create any cudgel with a Weapon Die of +1D8 or more\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Cudgel Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the cudgel one of the following qualities: Defending, Reach, Sparring, Success Table: Lunge (Wounding), Weighted. The cudgel can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Military (Brawl) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Brew\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft draughts and salves using your skills at alchemy. You can also create medicine and poison antidotes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Brewing takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Crafting with Brew requires the expenditure of alchemical ingredients.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Magicks (Brew).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Magicks (Brew).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brew\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemy tools or workshop\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time or extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brew Alchemical Substance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Create medicine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Quantity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Potency\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Material Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eureka!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Brew Alchemical Substance (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create one dose of a salve or draught listed in Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialized Gear\u8221". The substance has a Charm Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Create medicine (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create two units of medicine for every success point and unit of alchemical ingredients you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Quantity (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You make another salve or draught for each success point you spent. The Charm Die of the additional doses is the same as the original; you only need to increase the potency for one dose.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Potency (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} The Charm Die of the salve or draught improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Brew).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Material Cost:} You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll by one unit of alchemical ingredients.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Eureka! (2 units of alchemical ingredients):} You invent a new draught, salve, or concoction that hasn\u8217't been brewed before. Work with your MJ to determine the exact result of your new formulation. It has an initial Charm Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Calculus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can draw plans, create algorithms, or derive theorems using the Science (Calculus) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Creating something with Calculus takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your abacus or other calculation tool when using Calculus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} The use of Science (Calculus) requires writing materials.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Calculus).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Calculus).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculus\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Abacus or other calculation aid\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies (varies)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time, extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Draw Plans\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Design Algorithm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eureka! Eureka!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Draw Plans (1 unit of writing materials):} You create plans for a clockwork component or a clockwork device. The plans have a Bonus Die of +0D6 for attempts to create that component, or assemble that device. For every 2 success points and 2 units of writing materials you spend, the Bonus Die of the plans improves by one die size, limited by your ranks in Science (Calculus).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Design Algorithm (2 units of writing materials):} You create and write down an algorithm with an Item Die of +1D6. The algorithm is a set of instructions for performing some task involving calculation, such as navigation, drawing plans, or preparing a meal. (An algorithm for making food is known as a recipe.) For every 2 success points and 2 units of writing materials you spend, the Item Die of the algorithm improves by one die size, limited by your ranks in Science (Calculus).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Eureka! Eureka! (6 units of writing materials):} You\u8217've derived a completely new theorem or solution to a problem, such as measuring the volume of an object by submerging it in water. (You\u8217're not required to run naked through the streets, though.) You need to have at least +4 ranks in Science (Calculus) for this. If you share this with other mathematicians or scientists, they\u8217'll probably name the discovery after you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Carouse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use Streetwise (Carouse) to craft alcoholic beverages.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting alcohol takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Foodstuffs are required for creating alcohol.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks Streetwise (Carouse).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Streetwise (Carouse).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carouse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foodstuffs\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time, extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Brewed Alcohol\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Wine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improved Alcohol\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Spirits\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Brewed Alcohol (1 unit of foodstuffs):} You create a night\u8217's worth of cheap beer, ale, or cider for one person. For each additional success point you spend, you create another night\u8217's worth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Wine (1 unit of foodstuffs):} You create a bottle of wine of average quality. You can create another bottle of the same thing by spending another 1 success point and 1 unit of foodstuffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improved Alcohol (1 unit of foodstuffs):} The quality of your alcohol increases to \u8220"good,\u8221" and if you spend another 2 success points and 1 unit of foodstuffs, to \u8220"really good\u8221".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Spirits (1 unit of foodstuffs):} You create a bottle or flask of average quality spirits. For each additional success point and unit of foodstuffs you spend, you create another bottle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Clockworks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can clockwork devices, casings, and components with the Science (Clockworks) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting clockwork items requires 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your repair tools or workshop to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Clockwork gears are required for creating anything with Clockworks, except for clockwork gears \u8211- which require crucible steel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Plans:} If you have plans for the type of device or component you\u8217're trying to create, add the Bonus Die of the plans to your dice pool. Plans are created with the Science (Calculus) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting a clockwork item to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Science (Clockworks).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your clockwork item by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork tools,\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork gears or crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time, plans\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Component\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Clockwork Gears\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Casing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Assemble Device\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duplicate A Device\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Component (1 or more units of clockwork gears):} You create a clockwork component. If it has an Item Die, it starts at +1D6. For each additional success point you spend, the Item Die increases one step, limited by your ranks in Science (Clockworks).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Clockwork Gears (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create two units of clockwork gears. For each additional unit of crucible steel you spend, you create another two units of clockwork gears.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Casing (1 or more units of crucible steel):} You create a casing for a clockwork device. The amount of steel you must spend depends on the size of the casing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Assemble Device:} You complete a clockwork device. You must have all of the device\u8217's components in order to assemble it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Power Source (special):} You create a power source that can be installed in a device. The supplies cost varies depending on the type of power source you\u8217're using.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Duplicate A Device (special):} You create a duplicate of an existing clockwork device. You must spend the same amount and type of supplies to create the duplicate as was spent to create the original.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Deceive\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can create an alternate identity for yourself, including creating a disguise, by using the Interaction (Deceive) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting an identity takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Fabric or alchemical components may be required for certain aspects of your new identity\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in the Specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your identity by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deceive\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fabric, alchemical components\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Identity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Make a Connection\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maintain Identity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Identity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Assume Someone\u8217's Identity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Persistent Identity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Identity (1 unit of fabric):} You create an alternate identity. That identity has a different name from you, although it otherwise has all the same qualities as you (general appearance, gender, etc). To casual observers, though, you\u8217're different people \u8211- perhaps you put on a pair of spectacles in your new identity? You have a +1D0 Bonus Die when trying to pass yourself off as your new identity. Your identity lasts for up to 24 hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can spend additional success points to alter your appearance. Each alteration you make to your appearance costs 1 success point and one additional unit of supplies, as shown on the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alteration\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apparent age\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apparent gender\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apparent height\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apparent nationality\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apparent weight\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair color\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair style\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit of alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Identity Changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Identity:} The Bonus Die afforded by your false identity improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Interaction (Deceive).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Make a Connection:} You go out in public and are seen are by one reputable person who will unwittingly vouch for your identity. Each additional success point gives you another person who thinks you\u8217're who you\u8217're pretending to be.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Maintain Identity:} Your identity lasts an additional 24 hours for every extra success point you spend. While your identity is active, you can make another Deceive roll to extend the duration; the cost to make this roll is equal to your original supplies cost for Craft Identity. You can only spend your success points on Make Connection, Maintain Identity, Improve Identity, or Persistent Identity if you make such a roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Assume Someone\u8217's Identity (3 units of fabric, 3 units of alchemical ingredients):} You disguise yourself as a specific person, adopting their appearance and identity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Persistent Identity:} The identity you\u8217've crafted is so airtight that you can maintain it indefinitely without being discovered.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Explore\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft maps, globes, rations, shelters, rafts, and other survival gear with the Nature (Explore) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a quick map or rations takes 1 hour. Crafting survival gear creation takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your tools or workroom to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies are required for crafting with this Specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Nature (Explore).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Explore\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour or 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Varies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Varies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Map\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prepare Rations\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Map or Globe\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Globe\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Build Shelter\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Build Raft\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Map (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a map of either the local region or somewhere you\u8217've been. The map gives an Item Bonus of +1D6 on navigation, food gathering, and trailblazing in that area. You can also create a copy of any map you have access to.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prepare Rations (1 unit of foodstuffs):} You create three days\u8217' worth of jerky and dried fruits that are easily portable and won\u8217't go bad. For each additional success point and unit of foodstuffs, you create another three days\u8217' worth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Map or Globe:} You increase the detail and information on your map or globe. The Item Bonus increases by one die size, limited by your ranks in Nature (Explore).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Globe (3 units of art media):} You create a globe of the planet Arrete. This globe gives an Item Bonus of +1D6 on navigation between relatively large land masses and major settlements.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Build Shelter:} You create a shelter that can withstand the current weather for 24 hours. The duration increases by 24 hours for every additional success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Build Raft:} You create a crude raft. It can stay together for 4 hours, although each hour of inclement weather or rapids counts as two hours. The duration increases by 4 hours or every additional success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Feint\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft whips and nets using the Feint specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create whips if you have Whip Prowess, and nets if you have Net Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of fabric are required for creating whips or nets.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Dueling (Feint).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feint\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Net\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Whip\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Net Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Whip Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Net (1 unit of fabric):} You create any net.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Whip (1 unit of fabric):} You create any whip.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Net Quality (1 unit of fabric or crucible steel):} You can give the net one of the following qualities: Reach, Specialty Table: Feint (Entangling, Tripping), Throwable, Weighted. The net can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Feint) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Whip Quality (1 unit of fabric or crucible steel):} You can give the whip one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Reach, Responding, Sparring, Success Table: Feint (Disarming, Entangling, Unhorse, Wounding), Weighted. The whip can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Feint) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Husbandry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use the Nature (Husbandry) specialty to harvest crops, slaughter animals, prepare meals, and create leather armor and other leather goods.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Each use of Nature (Husbandry) takes one hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} You can add the Item Die of cooking utensils or a kitchen while preparing food; and you can add the Item Die of tailoring tools when making flexible armor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of foodstuffs are needed only if you are preparing food. Creating armor requires fabric and possibly\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Nature (Husbandry).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to use Nature (Husbandry) by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tools (varies)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies (varies)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Flexible Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Leather Item\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prepare Food\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improved Flexible Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Superior Flexible Armor\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Flexible Armor (1 unit of fabric):} You create any flexible armor with a +1D6 Armor Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Leather Item (1 or more units of fabric):} You create a leather item such as a saddle, belt, or pouch.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prepare Food (1 unit of foodstuffs):} You create a meal (or several smaller meals) that are enough to feed two people for 1 day. For each additional unit of foodstuffs you spend, you can feed another two people. The food becomes inedible after 24 hours, but you can extend this duration by 24 hours for every additional success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improved Flexible Armor (2 units of fabric, 1 unit of crucible steel): }You create any flexible armor with an Armor Die of +1D8.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Superior Flexible Armor (2 units of fabric, 2 units of crucible steel):} You create any flexible armor with an Armor Die of +1D10 or higher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Larceny\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can create forged documents, imitation jewelry, locks, traps, and alarms with the Streetwise (Larceny) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Creating a forgery or an obstacle takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your repair tools or workshop to your dice pool when working with locks or traps.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Clockwork gears are required for creating locks or traps, Writing materials materials are required for forging documents, and art media for duplicating jewelry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Streetwise (Larceny).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Larceny\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repair tools or workshop for obstacles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork gears, writing materials, or art media\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Obstacle\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Obstacle Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Forge Document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duplicate Jewelry\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Obstacle (1 unit of clockwork gears):} You create a simple lock, alarm, or trap. Attempts to install or bypass the obstacle are made against Standard Opposition of Easy (3D6).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Obstacle Quality (1 unit of clockwork gears):} The quality of obstacle improves, increasing the Standard Opposition for attempts to disable or bypass the obstacle. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Streetwise (Larceny).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Forge Document (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a forgery of a document. The standard opposition to detect the deception is Easy (3D6) and improves by one die size for every 2 additional success points you spend, limited by your Streetwise (Larceny).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Duplicate Jewelry (2 units of art media):} You create a piece of jewelry that appears to be expensive and valuable, but is actually worthless crystal, glass, or shiny metals. The standard opposition to detect that the jewelry isn\u8217't real starts at Easy (3D6) and improves by one die size for every 2 additional success points and 1 unit of art media you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Lunge\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft polearms and swords with the Dueling (Lunge) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create polearms if you have Polearm Prowess, and swords if you have Sword Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Defense (Parry).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Light Sword\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Long Sword\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Great Sword\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Short Polearm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Long Polearm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Sword Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Polearm Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Light Sword (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any sword that has the Either Hand quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Long Sword (2 units of crucible steel):} You can create any sword that has the Main Hand quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Great Sword (4 units of crucible steel):} You can create any sword that has the Both Hands quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Short Polearm (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can create any polearm that doesn\u8217't have reach.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Long Polearm (3 units of crucible steel):} You can create any polearm that has the Reach quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Sword Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the sword one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Lightened, Success Table: Lunge (Wounding, Yielding, Unhorse), Success Table: Parry (Basket Hilt), Weighted. The weapon can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Lunge) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Polearm Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the polearm one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Lightened, Parrying, Reach, Success Table: Lunge (Disarming, Knockdown, Unhorse), Throwable, Weighted. The weapon can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Lunge) specialty ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Negotiate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft legal documents, including business contracts, treaties, bills of sale, identity papers, and more, by using the Interaction (Negotiate) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a contract, treaty, or identity papers takes one hour, and crafting a bill of sale takes one minute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Crafting any sort of document requires writing materials.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Interaction (Negotiate).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negotiate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute or 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Writing materials materials\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Basic Document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Complex Document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Forge Document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Include Loophole\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Basic Document (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a basic legal document, such as a bill of sale. If signed by at least one party and used in later negotiations, it provides you with a +1D0 Bonus Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Document (1 unit of writing materials):} The document\u8217's Bonus Die improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Interaction (Negotiate).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Complex Document (5 units of writing materials):} You create a complex legal document, such as a treaty, a business contract, or identity papers. If signed by all parties involved and used in later negotiations, it provides you with a +1D0 Bonus Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Forge Document:} The document you create isn\u8217't actually legally binding, but it looks authentic to casual inspection \u8211- including any signatures you have access to. You can only do this with a basic document, or with the signatures on a complex document. The standard opposition for attempts to detect the forgery starts at Easy (3D6) and increases by one die size for every 2 success points you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Include Loophole (1 unit of writing materials):} You add a loophole into the document that renders the document null and void under a specific circumstance. You decide that circumstance when you create the document, but it\u8217's not obvious to any other parties to the agreement. You can choose to reveal the loophole whenever the circumstances are right. You can only do this with a complex document.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Parry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft shields using the Parry specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create shields if you have Shield Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a shield takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating shields.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Defense (Parry).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Light Shield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shield Spike\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Standard Shield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Heavy Shield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Perfectly Balanced\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Light Shield (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any shield with an Item Die of +1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Shield Spike (1 unit of crucible steel):} You affix a spike the shield you\u8217've created, letting its Shield Die be used as a Weapon Die for Lunge and Riposte. The wielder must have both Shield Prowess and Knife Prowess to include that Weapon die in any dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Standard Shield (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any shield with an item die of +1D8.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Heavy Shield (2 unit of crucible steel):} You create any shield with an item die of +1D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Perfectly Balanced (1 unit of crucible steel):} The shield is perfectly balanced for throwing. If the wielder has Shield Prowess and Cudgel Prowess, its Shield Die can be used as a Weapon Die for Lunge, Riposte, and Aim (+++: Shield Rebounds to Thrower, Close Range Drop 0, Short Range Drop 0, Medium Range Drop 2).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Poison\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft poisons and antidotes with Medicine (Poison) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting poison or antidote takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Alchemical ingredients are required for crafting poisons and antidotes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Poison).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Poison).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemy tools or laboratory\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time, extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Standard Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Antidote\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Quantity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Time Delay\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Stage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Potency\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Exotic Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Exotic Antidote\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Material Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Develop Antidote\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eureka!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Standard Poison (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create one dose of a standard type of poison with an Item Die of +1D6. Standard poisons are listed in Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialized Gear.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Antidote (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create two doses of poison antidote. The antidote gives a +1D6 Item Die on attempts to cure poisons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Quantity (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You make another dose of poison or two doses of antidote for each success point and unit of alchemical ingredients you spend. The Item Die of the additional doses is the same as the original; you only need to increase the potency, add a delay, or add a stage for one dose.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Time Delay (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} The poison doesn\u8217't take effect until 1 hour after being introduced to the victim\u8217's system for each success point and unit of alchemical ingredients you spend. The maximum number of hours you can delay the effects is equal to your ranks in Poison (Medicine)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Stage (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create a staged poison \u8211- the individual components are harmless but when all are combined together the poison takes effect. Applications of the stages must take place within an hour of the first stage, or the poison loses all potency. The maximum number of stages you can create is equal to your ranks in Poison (Medicine); if you just have +1 rank, you can\u8217't create a staged poison.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Potency (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You increase the Item Die of the poison or antidote by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Poison (Medicine).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Exotic Poison (3 units of alchemical ingredients):} You create one dose of a rare poison. The poison has an Item Die of +1D6, and it can only be neutralized by a dose of exotic antidote created specifically for this toxin.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Exotic Antidote (3 units of alchemical ingredients):} You create one dose of an antidote formulated against a specific exotic poison. The antidote has an Item Die of +1D6, and is only effective against that single toxin.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Develop Antidote (3 units of alchemical ingredients, 1 dose of the poison in question or a poisoned victim):} You create one dose of an antidote formulated against an unknown poison or unique poison. The antidote has an Item Die of +1D6, and is only effective against that single toxin. Now that you\u8217've created the cure, you can create it as an \u8220"exotic antidote\u8221", as can anyone who you instruct in the process.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Eureka! (5 units of alchemical ingredients):} You\u8217've managed to mix up a unique poison that is resistant to the normal antidotes. The poison\u8217's Item Die is +1D6. Now that you have created it, you can create it as an \u8220"exotic poison\u8221", as can anyone who you instruct in the process. In addition, you can also create an antidote to your own creation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Portents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft divination cards, astrological charts, and bibelots with the Magicks (Portents) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Using Magicks (Portents) to draw astrological charts or encharm bibelots takes one hour. Crafting divination cards takes one day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your tools or workroom to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Art media is required to produce items using Magicks (Portents).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Magicks (Portents).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce your crafting time by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portents\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour or 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan tools, seance room\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Art media\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Draw Astrological Charts\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Astrological Charts\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Encharm Bibelot\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Create Divination Cards\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Draw Astrological Charts (1 unit of art media):} You create a set of astrological charts for someone based on the place, date, and time of her birth. (Incorrect information will, of course, produce useless charts!) The charts you create provide you with a +1D6 Item Die for Magicks (Portents) rolls on that person.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Astrological Charts (1 unit of art media):} The Item Die of the astrological charts improves by one die size. The Item Die is limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Portents).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Encharm Bibelot (1 unit of art media):} You create a single bibelot encharmed with a skill of your choice. (See Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Gear\u8221", for details on bibelots.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Create Divination Cards (5 units of art media):} You create a personalized deck of divination cards, either for yourself or for someone whom you have astrological charts. The deck has an Item Die of +1D6 which increases by one step for each additional success point you spend, limited by the number of specialty ranks you in Magicks (Portents). Your own deck also has a Bonus Die of +1D0, and you can increase that by one step for each additional success point, limited by your Portents ranks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Riposte\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft knives with the Riposte specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowess Required:} You can only create knives if you have Knife Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Defense (Riposte).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metalworking tools, smithy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crucible steel\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Light Knife\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Long Knife\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Knife Quality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Light Knife (1 unit of crucible steel):} You create any knife with the Either Hand quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Long Knife (2 unit of crucible steel):} You can create any knife with the Main Hand quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Knife Quality (1 unit of crucible steel):} You can give the knife one of the following qualities: Lightened, Medium Range, Sparring, Success Table: Riposte (Disarming, Wounding), Success Table: Success Table: Feint (Retort), Success Table: Parry (Basket Hilt, Disarming, Weapon-Catching), Throwable, Weighted. The weapon can have a number of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Riposte) specialty ranks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Scholarship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft reports and research summaries for your own use or the use of others. Each report has to be on a very specific topic, such as \u8220"The Effect of Piracy on French Commerce in the 15th Century.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can also craft one chapter of a non-fiction book, with a broader topic such as \u8220"Piracy in France\u8221" or \u8220"Economics of the 15th Century.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting a report takes 1 hour. Crafting a book chapter takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Research Required:} You must either have first-hand knowledge of the topic or use Culture (Scholarship) to do research of at least 1 hour for a report and 1 day for a book chapter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your applicable reference book or library to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Crafting a report or book chapter requires Writing materials supplies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Culture (Scholarship).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your report by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scholarship\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Books, library\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Writing materials materials\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Report\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Writing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Translate a Passage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Book Chapter\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eureka!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Report (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a basic report on a narrow topic. The report has a +1D6 Item Die that can be used in Scholarship or Knowledge rolls related to the topic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Writing (1 unit of writing materials):} The Item Die of the report or book chapter improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Culture (Scholarship).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Translate a Passage (1 unit of writing materials):} You can translate one page of text from one language you know to another language you know. If you have a translating dictionary, you only have to know one of the languages. For each additional success point and unit of writing materials you spend, you can translate another page of text.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Book Chapter (3 units of writing materials):} You create a book chapter about a general topic. The book has a +1D6 Item Die that can be used in Scholarship or Knowledge rolls related to the topic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Eureka!:} During the course of your research, you\u8217've reached a new conclusion that has eluded other scholars before you. The Item Die of the report or chapter is maximized when used in a dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Strategy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can create written materials to be used in military operations with the Military (Strategy) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Drafting military materials takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Writing materials are required for crafting with Strategy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on writing to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Military (Strategy).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to write your materials by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the writing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strategy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 writing materials\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Draft Battle Plans\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Improve Battle Plans\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Issue Orders\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Forge Orders\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Draft Battle Plans (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a basic plan of battle for a specific place and time. The plans give a +1D0 Bonus Die on Military (Strategy) rolls for that location, and are valid for 1 week (6 days). The time can be extended by 1 week for each additional success point you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Improve Battle Plans (1 unit of writing materials):} The Bonus Die of your battle plans increased by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Military (Strategy).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Issue Orders (1 unit of writing materials):} You issue orders to one person under your command based on your battle plans. (Orders given to officers apply to all troops under that officer\u8217's command). If your orders are followed, your subordinate gains a +1D6 Item Die on Military (Strategy), Nature (Explore) and Nature (Prowl) rolls related to those plans. For each additional success point and unit of writing materials, you can issue orders to another subordinate. For each additional 2 success points you spend, the Item Die of your orders improves by one die size, limited by your specialty ranks in Military (Strategy).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Forge Orders (1 unit of writing materials):} You create a forgery of military orders that appear to come from a specific commander. This can include fake letters of promotion, forged military identification papers, and legitimate-looking orders that will actually end in disaster. When someone attempts to analyze these orders, the standard opposition is Easy (3D6). The difficulty increases by one step for every 2 success points and 1 unit of writing materials you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Treat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft medicine and cures for diseases with the Medicine (Treat) specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting medicine takes 1 hour. Crafting a disease cure takes 1 day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} medicine require alchemical ingredients; disease cures require medicine.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Treat).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Medicine (Treat).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Treat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour or 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Alchemy tools or laboratory\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 medicine or alchemical ingredients\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Time\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft medicine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Known Cure\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Material Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duplicate Cure\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eureka!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft medicine (1 unit of alchemical ingredients):} You create two units of medicine for every 1 success point and 1 unit of alchemical ingredients you spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Known Cure (2 units of medicine):} You create one dose of a cure for a known disease. The cure is effective for 24 hours, although the potency can be extended by another 24 hours for each success point you spend. Each extra success point and unit of medicine you spend creates another dose of the same cure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Duplicate Cure (2 units of medicine):} You duplicate the curative properties of a cure without knowing the exact treatment for it, as long as you have a sample. You create one dose of the cure, and for every extra success point and unit of medicine you create another dose. The cure is effective for only 12 hours and cannot be extended.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Eureka! (5 units of medicine):} You\u8217've invented a new cure for the disease you\u8217're treating. You craft one dose of the cure, and for every extra success point and unit of medicine you create another one. The cure is effective for 24 hours, although you can extend the potency by another 24 hours for each success point you spend. From now on, you can create this cure as a \u8220"known cure\u8221" as can anyone who you instruct.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Weave\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can craft articles of clothing, including charmwoven items.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base Time:} Crafting an article of clothing takes 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Item Die:} Add the Item Die of your tailoring tools or workshop to your dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supplies:} Creating clothes requires fabric supplies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Time:} You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in Magicks (Weave).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extra Supplies:} You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in the Specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rushing:} You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can\u8217't rush a job that you\u8217're taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Opposition:} Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the creation.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weave\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Crafting)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Automatic Success\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tailoring tools or workshop\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bonus Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra time or extra supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craft Article of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Add Charm to Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Charm\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Material Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Masterpiece!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Craft Article of Clothing (1 unit of fabric):} You create a basic article of clothing that is social rank Commoner (D0) or Soldier (D6). If the social rank is Artisan (D8) or higher, you need to pay extra success points to create it. If you spend one additional success point, you can create an article of clothing that is social rank Artisan (D8) or Noble (D10). If you have at least 4 ranks in Magicks (Weave), you can spend one more success point to create an article of clothing that is social rank Royal (D12).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Add Charm to Clothing:} You add a charm to the article you created, with a Charm Die of +1D6. The item must be in accordance with the applicable Laws of Fashion (see Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialized Gear\u8221").\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Increase Charm (1 unit of fabric):} The Charm Die of the article of clothing improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Weave).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reduce Material Cost:} You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll by one unit of fabric.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Masterpiece!:} You\u8217've created an amazing article of apparel that draws everyone\u8217's eyes. The article\u8217's Charm Die is automatically maximized when used in a dice pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a summary of all the style maneuvers available to player characters. Each class choice gives players access to a different set of maneuvers; these are the only ones that can be chosen at character creation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Types of Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three types of Style Maneuvers: reroll maneuvers, maximize maneuvers, and conditional maneuvers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Reroll Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A reroll maneuver lets you reroll your entire dice pool. You can do this immediately after you roll, or you can do it after your opponent rolls. You ignore your original results and only keep the rerolled version.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rerolling costs one Style Point, and you can repeat it if you have enough Style Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Maximize Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A maximize maneuver sets the value of one die in your pool to its maximum value. You set that die aside and turn it to its maximum value, before you roll. For example, if you maximize a D10, you set the value to a 10. Then you roll your dice and calculate your result as if the maximized value were one that you rolled.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The die you maximize must be one you include in your dice pool from the associated specialty or item die. If you have a pool that consists of 1D8 (Verve) + 1D6 (Competency) + 2D8 (Lunge) + 1D10 (Weapon Die) + 1D12 (Advantage Die), you can use a \u8220"maximize Lunge die\u8221" maneuver only to maximize one of the D8s from Lunge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximizing a die costs two Style Points, and you can only have one maximized die in any dice pool. You can\u8217't a maximize maneuver after you roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Conditional Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A conditional maneuver has a specific condition that must be met in order for you to use it. When you do so, you add the dice from one source to a different dice pool. Adding the dice from a second specialty doesn\u8217't give you the Attribute Die, Competency Die, or Item Die from the second dice pool, but it does give you a number of dice equal to your specialty ranks. The size of each such die is determined by your attribute; if you have +2 Lunge and your Verve is D8, then you add +2D8 to another pool as directed by the maneuver.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you don\u8217't have any ranks at all in a specialty but you\u8217're Competent with the appropriate Skill, you can instead add your Competency Die as another Specialty die. If you aren\u8217't Competent with the skill at all, you probably made a poor choice for a style maneuver; you can add 1D6 to the roll instead as a Specialty Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Using a conditional maneuver requires one Style Point. If you meet the criteria for multiple conditional maneuvers and you want to spend the Style Points, you use as many such maneuvers as you like on one die roll. You need to decide before you roll, not after.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you add dice from one specialty to another roll, that second roll also becomes a pool of that type in addition to its own. In other words, if you have a maneuver that lets you \u8220"add Husbandry dice to a Lunge\u8221" roll and you spend the Style Point to use it, the roll is both a Lunge roll and a Husbandry roll. This can allow for adding in additional style maneuvers as a combo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Style Maneuver List\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This list summarizes the available style maneuvers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b A Mind for Money:} When sums of at least 1 crown are at stake, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Assault:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Deflection:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Parry die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Fisticuffs:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Fulmination:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Blackpowder die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aggressive Mockery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Banter die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Anatomical Studies:} When working in a well-equipped surgical theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Anti-Toxins:} When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend 1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Apologetics:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aristocratic Bearing:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Astrological Charts:} When you know the date and location of a subject\u8217's birth, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Portents roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Automatic Fire:} When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ballistics:} When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Beating a High Horse:} When mocking someone of higher social rank than you, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Banter roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Better Not Pout:} When giving or showing toys to children, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bird Calls:} When working with birds, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bombadier:} When attacking with a Blackpowder weapon, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Books of Faith:} When dealing with someone of the samefaith as you, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Boundless Creativity:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Arts die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Brilliant Analysis:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Broadsides:} When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Camouflage Mastery:} When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cartography:} When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Explore roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Chemical Calculations:} When working in a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Combat Pantomime:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Block roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Comfortable Debauchery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Commanding Presence:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Confidence Game:} When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Confident Fencing:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Criminology:} When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Camouflage:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Erudition:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Evasion:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Misdirection:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Feint die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Prevarication:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cunning Thievery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Curse Your Betrayal:} When defending against a feint, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Daring Chirurgery:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Surgery die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deadly Toxicology:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Poison die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Deflecting Shield:} When using a buckler to parry, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Diplomatic Immunity:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Divine Protection:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Do You Expect Me To Talk?:} When conversing with other spies, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Don\u8217't You Know Who I Am?:} When speaking with someone of Artisan social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Down-n-Dirty Fighting:} When making a riposte while you have one hand free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dress to Impress:} While wearing an outfit you created yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drowning My Sorrows:} When fighting in a tavern or while drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Brawl roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drunken Stagger:} When drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Emergency Assistance:} When treating someone who is suffering from exposure to the elements, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Treat roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Enhanced Enchantments:} Spend 2 Style points to set the value of one Charm die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Envenomed Blade:} When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to add Poison dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Epidemiology:} When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equestrienne:} When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fashion! Dodge to the Left:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fast-Talking:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Feeling No Pain:} When you\u8217've been drinking, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Block roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b First Aid:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Flamboyant Couture:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Weave die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Focused Attention:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Folk Remedies:} When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b For The Defense:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Forensic Analysis:} When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b From the Heart:} When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Great White Hunter:} When attacking an animal, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Honed Instincts:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Honest Dealer:} When negotiating in good faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b How Dare You:} When attacking someone who has already damaged you in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Riposte roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Huntsman\u8217's Best Friend:} When traveling with a hunting dog, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to an Explore roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b I\u8217'm a Lover, not a Fighter:} When being attacked by someone whom you find attractive, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b I\u8217'm Innocent, Innocent!:} When trying to convince someone of your innocence, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b I\u8217'm Too Pretty to Die!:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b In Costume:} When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Incoming Fire:} When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to add Aim dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b International Trade:} When buying or selling wares that have been imported or exported, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Into the Rigging:} When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inventive Mathematics:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b It\u8217's My Creation:} When repairing or using a device that you invented, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Clockworks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Last Resort:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Learned Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Knowledge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Legal Precedents:} When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Linguistics:} When trying to understand something in a language you don\u8217't know, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Scholarship roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Longbow Hunter:} When using a bow outdoors, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lost in the Crowd:} When in an area with more than 3 other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Manners Count:} When speaking to someone of at least Artisan rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Negotiate roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Martial Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Measuring is Everything:} When following a recipe or a cookbook while cooking, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Arts roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Miniaturization:} When creating devices of Portable size or smaller, spend 1 Style Point to add Perceive dice to a Clockworks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mistress of Fashion:} When creating clothing or accoutrements with a base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Weave roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mostly Harmless:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Mounted Combatant:} When using a weapon with the Mounted quality while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Natural Cover:} When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Natural Flavorings:} When using or neutralizing ingested toxins, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Poison roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Naval Hilt:} When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Parry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Never Again:} When attacking someone who has already damaged one of your allies in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nomadic Archery:} When firing a bow, spend 1 Style Point to add Perceive dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Optical Focus:} When using a device to help you see, spend 1 Style Point to add Clockworks dice to a Perceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Parrot\u8217's Nest:} When looking at things more than one area away, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Parrying Shield:} When using a buckler to block, spend 1 Style Point to add Parry dice to a Block roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Polite Fictions:} When speaking with someone of at least Noble social rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Powdersmith:} When creating or repairing a device with a blackpowder flintlock power source, a phlogistone furnace power source, or an explosion component, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to a Clockworks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Alchemy:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brew die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Crafting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Cultivation:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Diplomacy:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Manners:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Retort:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Practiced Sharpshooting:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precise Bludgeoning:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precise Swordplay:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Precision Mechanics:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reconnaissance:} When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Refined Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Relentless Pathfinding:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Explore die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reliable Senses:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rites of the Moon:} When dealing with someone of the Devran faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ritual Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rural Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Saw That Coming:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Portents dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scalpel\u8217's Cut:} When using a knife or chirurgeon\u8217's knives, spend 1 Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Second Opinion:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Shady Negotiations:} When dealing with criminals or conspirators, spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Smuggler\u8217's Moon:} When in darkness or at night, spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Prowl roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sniper:} When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Social Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Speleology:} When prospecting or exploring in caves, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to an Explore roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Standing on the Shoulders of Giants:} When inventing a device in a well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Clockworks roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Strategic Maneuvers:} When commanding at least 3 troops, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Street Fighting:} When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Strength in Conviction:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Student of Accents:} When trying to pass yourself off as someone from another nation, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Supercilious Vituperation:} When insulting someone who is competent with the Culture skill, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Banter roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Tactical Retreat:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b That\u8217's Me In the Spotlight:} When talking with someone who doesn\u8217't share your religious beliefs, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b The Horrors of War:} When talking about war or battle, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to an Inspire roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b The Underground Economy:} When buying or selling on the black market, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b There\u8217's No Need for Violence:} When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trained Ear:} When listening to other people speaking, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Perceive roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trained Endurance:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Block die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trick Shot:} When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add Feint dice to an Aim roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Twist the Knife:} When attacking with a knife that was hidden at the beginning of the fight, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Lunge roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ubiquitous Shield:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Uncanny Prediction:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Portents die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Unorthodox Tactics:} Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Strategy die to its maximum value before rolling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Urban Reliability:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Verifiable Hypothesis:} Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Well-Traveled:} When dealing with someone from a foreign culture, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yodeler:} When working with domesticated animals, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b You Can\u8217't Go Home Again:} When dealing with someone from your home country, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive roll\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Gamemaster\u8217's Toolbox: New Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As the Gamemaster, you can create new Style Maneuvers that can be chosen by your players.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reroll maneuvers} cost one Style Point and allow for one broad type of roll to be rerolled. For example, you could create a maneuver that allows a reroll on Wealth rolls, attack rolls with a rapier, or rolls that use one of the character\u8217's passions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Maximize maneuvers} cost two Style Points and allow one specific kind of die to be maximized. Any given pool can only have one maximized die. Examples of appropriate maneuvers include maximizing the Mount die of a mount or a specific weapon die, such as a pistol. Don\u8217't make the maneuver too specific; that\u8217's what conditional maneuvers are for.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Conditional maneuvers} cost one Style Point and let the character add dice from one specialty to another roll, but only under certain conditions. The conditions you choose should be fairly specific and not overly broad, but they should also be something that a determined player could use at least once per game session, if not more often.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Initiative maneuvers} don\u8217't exist, period. There aren\u8217't any Charms or Style Maneuvers that add to Initiative rolls. You probably shouldn\u8217't invent any, either; that limitation is there for a reason. You can, however, create conditional maneuvers that add Initiative specialties to other dice rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Finally, you need to decide which classes, nationalities, or other groups have access to the new maneuver. Perhaps it\u8217's a lost sword technique only taught to students of a retired blademaster, or it\u8217's commonly practiced by adult members of a house of the Ifran desert. It\u8217's possible you might decide that no groups can freely choose your new maneuver, in which case players will need to pay the additional XP cost when choosing it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Players, you don\u8217't have the option to create your own Style Maneuvers whenever you want \u8211- but you can always suggest one to your Gamemaster and maybe she\u8217'll like the idea!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Equipment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In this chapter, we\u8217'll look at the mundane clothes, weapons, tools, and other items that a cavalier might use during the course of her day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Item Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Every item has a scale that describes the general size of the item: pocket scale, handheld scale, portable scale, human scale, furniture scale, room scale, and building scale. In general, it\u8217's easy enough to determine the scale of most items, but for some items a scale is explicitly listed in the lists that follow.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The scale concept is used in the optional rules for Encumbrance, later in this chapter, as well as for clockwork devices in Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment,\u8221" and animals in Chapter 20, \u8220"Opponents.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Pocket Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A pocket-scale device is light, easily concealed, requires only one hand to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing without attracting undue notice. Examples include small pistols or knives, flasks of alchemical brews, and a pet mouse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Weapons of this size are classified as Either Hand weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Handheld Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A handheld item usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Most can\u8217't be easily concealed unless you\u8217're willing to forego easy access. Examples include most swords, tool kits, bucklers, and large hats.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When describing animals, such as cats or small dogs, handheld scale is known as pet scale. Weapons of this size are classified as Main Hand weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Portable Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A portable-scale item is one which requires two hands to carry and operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Examples include two-handed swords, muskets, and bar stools.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The equivalent scale for animals is companion scale. A portable-scale weapon is classified a Both Hands weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Human Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An object roughly the size of a person \u8211- such as a statue or a suit of rigid armor \u8211- can\u8217't be easily carried by a single person without requiring her full attention. Other examples include work carts, heavy chairs, and velocipedes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Furniture Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Larger than a human but smaller than a room, a carriage-scale item is around the size of a bed, a wardrobe dresser, or a small carriage. At best, an adult human can drag a furniture-scale item around but can\u8217't pick it up. Other furniture-scale items are horses, rowboats, and thrones.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In descriptions of animals, furniture scale is known as mount scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Room Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Room-scale items can be rooms themselves, the amount of furnishings it takes to fill up a room, or an object of comparable size. In combat, each room-scale item is usually its own Area.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mammoth scale is the equivalent of room scale when describing animals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Building Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Building-scale items include buildings, of course, but also large vehicles such as sailing ships or airships. In combat situations, a building-scale object is usually divided into multiple Areas.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When talking about animals this large, such as giant squids or great whales, the term behemoth scale is used.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 ::::::::::::::::::::::::: option ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::; #### Optional Rule: Encumbrance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is an optional rule that the MJ can use if it will enhance her game. In most cases, the calculations are more effort than they\u8217're worth and rarely provide any actual change in the game. However, if the players start carrying around dozens of heavy items, the MJ might decide that this use can help bring her players\u8217' gear into line with her expectations for the game. {\i The Queen\u8217's Cavaliers} is a swashbuckling action game, and not about lugging around heavy weights!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Carrying Limit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A human carrying a Person-sized object takes a Drop 2 penalty on attack rolls (Dueling, Brawl, and Aim), and cannot move more than one area in a given turn. Humans cannot usually move items of Carriage size or higher, unless it\u8217's got wheels or something similar.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You pick up an unconscious colleague and carry her over your shoulders. That\u8217's obviously a Person-sized object, so you get a Drop 2 penalty and can\u8217't run.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Combining Encumbrance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Three items of a smaller size are equivalent to one item of larger size. So three Portable items are as bulky and heavy as one Person-sized object \u8211- meaning if you\u8217're carrying a musket, a zweihander, and a pike (all Portable-sized objects), you\u8217've got the equivalent of a Person-sized object and take the Drop 2 penalty, plus you can\u8217't run.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Three Pocket-sized items equal a Handheld object; three Handheld-sized items equal a Portable object; and three Portable-sized items equal a Person-sized object. You could carry eight Handheld objects \u8211- say, a cutlass, a buckler, and a brace of six pistols tied together by rope \u8211- and not be slowed down, because that only equals two Portable items, which is less than a Person-sized object.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Worn Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Items that are specifically designed to be worn \u8211- and which can\u8217't be removed easily during the middle of a fight (and sometimes, even after a fight) \u8211- count as one size lower for purposes of encumbrance when worn. A suit of armor is normally Person-sized, but if you\u8217're wearing it, it counts as Portable-sized. (If you\u8217're trying to carry an empty suit of armor, though, it counts as Person-sized.) A worn breastplate (Portable) counts as a Handheld item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Pocket-sized items which are worn don\u8217't count at all for encumbrance purposes, unless you\u8217're wearing three of the same kind \u8211- for example, a worn wrist holster (Pocket) or two doesn\u8217't weigh you down at all. Three worn wrist holsters, however, would equal a Pocket-sized objects \u8211- base size of Pocket, stepped up to Handheld for three of them, then stepped down again to Pocket size for being worn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Clothing of any type never counts for calculating encumbrance \u8211- it\u8217's all considered Pocket size (regardless of actual size) and thus is not included when worn unless you\u8217're doing something silly like wearing three different capes at the same time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Other Things That Don\u8217't Weigh Very Much\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Medicine, alchemy supplies, draughts and unguents, poisons, and other small consumables don\u8217't count for encumbrance unless you\u8217've got 9 of them, in which case they count as a Pocket-sized object. Ammunition and powder for your guns, arrows for your crossbows and bows, and other types of ammo don\u8217't ever count; they\u8217're included with the weapon itself (especially as they\u8217're not tracked in {\i The Queen\u8217's Cavaliers}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Other supplies (art supplies, blackpowder supplies, clockwork gears, fabric, foodstuffs) count as one Pocket-size object for every three units you carry. So if you\u8217're carrying, say, 10 units of clockwork gears, that counts as three Pocket-size objects, or 1 Handheld object. Two or fewer units of these supplies don\u8217't count for encumbrance purposes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Wealth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In this game, money is treated as an abstract resource rather than counting the exact number of coins that your character is carrying. Your character\u8217's ability to purchase items is represented by a composite Wealth pool, and goods or services are rated by cost and availability.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Wealth Pools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Wealth score for a player character is a pool based on the following dice:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The character\u8217's two Social Rank scores\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The character\u8217's Competency Die\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A new Duelist/Charmweaver character would thus have a Wealth dice pool consisting of 1D6 (Soldier social rank), 1D8 (Artisan social rank), and 1D6 (starting Competency die), for a total of 1D8+2D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Wealth pools can become depleted by making successful Wealth rolls during the course of a game session, as described below. At the start of each session, a character\u8217's Wealth pool is restored to its original value.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Purchase Costs and Availability\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each item or service that you can buy has a cost, as shown on the equipment lists. For example, a dagger is 1D0, a leather jerkin is 1D6, and an airship is 4D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The availability of the item is dependent upon where you are and how common the item is, as determined by the Gamemaster based on the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Availability\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skill Level Required\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Apprentice\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Journeyman\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Uncommon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expert\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rare\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Master\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Rare\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grandmaster\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Availability\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are no set values for availability, but as a general rule the highest die in an item\u8217's cost is often equal to its availability rating, or the level of skill required to create the item, whichever is higher.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Gamemaster can change the availability based on the geographic location; for example, if you are in Paris, it\u8217's Very Common to find a sword, while in the Provinces it might be Very Common to buy a draft horse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The dice pool opposing a Wealth roll is equal to the cost plus the availability. Buying a sword in Paris would be D6 (cost) plus D0 (availability), or 1D6. Buying an Airship in Paris is 4D12 (cost) plus 1D12 (availability), or 5D12, since airships are very rarely available for purchase.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Making a Wealth Roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Wealth roll represents the character\u8217's attempt to locate goods or services, leverage her material assets and personal favors, and purchase said item. The player makes a roll of her Wealth pool against the cost and availability, rolled by the Gamemaster.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the Gamemaster\u8217's roll is higher, the character is unable to purchase the item in question \u8211- her personal lines of credit are exhausted, she\u8217's low on cash, there\u8217's not one available for the right price, or any other explanation. This is an opportunity for the Gamemaster and the player to cooperatively introduce a plot element to describe why the purchase didn\u8217't go through.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, on a failed Wealth roll, the character drops one die from her Wealth pool. This is marked on the character sheet by a checkbox. Dropped dice cannot be used again during the same game session, although they are restored at the beginning of the next game session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the player wins the opposed Wealth roll, she still drops one die from her Wealth pool to represent the expenditure of resources, and spends her success points on the following success table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wealth Rolls\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost and availability\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purchase Item\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 No Drop\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Purchase Item:} You can purchase the item or service in question. If the item has \u8220"bulk\u8221" beside the cost, it can be purchased in bulk, and each success point you spend gives you one more of the item; otherwise, you can only purchase the item or service once.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b No Drop:} You don\u8217't drop a die from your Wealth pool because of this roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Dropped Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dropped dice are restored at the start of the next game session. You can (and probably should) drop a D0 die if it is in your Wealth pool; it\u8217's always best to drop your lowest die rather your highest die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you get enough success points on your Wealth roll, you don\u8217't have to drop any dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can\u8217't choose to drop Barter or Reward dice when you make a Wealth roll, as they are not a permanent part of your Wealth pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Buying in Bulk\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Certain items in the equipment list can be purchased in bulk; these are marked by the word \u8220"bulk\u8221" after the cost. For those items, and only those items, you can buy multiple quantities by expending additional success points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are spending a Reward, you get a quantity of items equal to half your Reward die size when buying items in bulk. For example, if you spend a D8 reward on fabric (cost D6), you get 4 pieces of fabric.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Charmwoven Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You purchase a Charmwoven item in the same way that you purchase anything else \u8211- but the cost is equal to the base cost of the item plus the Charm die. This is in addition to the availability, which in most cases is equal to the Charm die as well.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if you wish to purchase a cavalier hat with a D8 Charm for Dueling (Riposte), the cost will be D6 for the hat, D8 for the Charm, and D8 for finding an Expert charmweaver, for a total of 2D8+1D6 as the opposition to your Wealth roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By comparison, an uncharmed cavalier hat would cost D6 plus D0 availability in Lutetia (they\u8217're all the rage these days), for a total of 1D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Cost D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An item with a cost of D0 is not free; it still requires a successful Wealth roll to purchase and thus a die dropped (or a D0 or higher Reward to purchase without rolling).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Likewise, a D0 Reward actually is something, but it doesn\u8217't do much except let you purchase a single D0 item (such as a knife).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A D0 Barter die has no value, however, so you don\u8217't need to bother with those.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Barter Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you sell items, you gain Barter dice equal to the cost (not the availability) of the item. Barter dice are recorded on the character sheet below the Wealth pool, and can be included in a Wealth roll whenever you wish. However, after being successfully used once, Barter dice are expended.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can include as many Barter dice as you have in any given roll, or you can save them as long as you wish.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 On a failed Wealth roll, any Barter dice used are not expended, and can be used again in the future.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if you want to sell your riding horse (cost D8), you gain a D8 Barter die. If you then turn around and buy a warhorse, you can choose to add the D8 to your Wealth roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Rewards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Reward is a more tangible, less abstract quantity of Wealth, usually bequeathed by a non-player character. Such Rewards could include a grant from the Queen, a bounty for capturing a wanted criminal, or a prize for winning a tournament.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each Reward has a die value associated with it, from D0 to D12. You can use a Reward to automatically purchase, without making a Wealth roll, any item or service which is equal to or less than the Reward\u8217's die value.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 New characters begin the game with three Rewards, equal in value to the dice in their Wealth pool. Additional Rewards should be granted by the Gamemaster. A typical good deed may net a Reward equal to the player characters\u8217' Competency die, while capturing a fugitive could earn a Reward equaling the criminal\u8217's Competency die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In game terms, there are three broad categories that weapons fall into: dueling, aimed, and explosive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dueling Weapon:} A weapon that can be used in close-quarters combat with one or more of the Dueling (Lunge), Dueling (Riposte), Dueling (Feint), or Defense (Parry) specialties. Examples are swords, knives, quarterstaves, and pikes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Aimed Weapon:} A weapon that can be used at range with the Military (Aim) specialty. These include crossbows, muskets, pistols, and some thrown weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Explosive Weapon:} Unlike some aimed weapons which also use blackpowder, such as flintlock pistols or muskets, aiming an explosive weapon isn\u8217't the problem. It\u8217's preventing yourself from blowing up in the process. To make an attack with explosives, you use the Science (Blackpowder) specialty. This category includes cannons, grenades, and bombs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Free Starting Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you create your character, you get a free weapon in addition to any granted by your classes and any additional weapons you might also buy. If you don\u8217't want a free weapon, you can instead take a +1D6 Barter die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can pick from the following basic weapons:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cutlass} (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dagger} (Knife +1D6, Either Hand)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Flintlock Pistol} (Pistol +1D6, Either Hand)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rapier} (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sabre} (Sword +1D6, Main Hand, Cavalry)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Smallsword} (Sword +1D6, Either Hand)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Weapon Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are four qualities possessed by all weapons: the type of Weapon Prowess needed to use it, the Weapon Die that can be added as an Item Die to your dice pools, the number of Hands you need to use to attack effectively with one, and the Specialties with which that weapon can be used. Some weapons also possess Success Table Additions which give you additional ways to spend success points when making certain kinds of rolls with the weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon Prowess:} Weapon Prowess is your knowledge of the basics of how to attack and defend with that weapon. There are nine types of Weapon Prowess: bow, cudgel, knife, musket, net, pistol, polearm, sword, and whip. All player characters automatically have Knife Prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon Die:} You can add the Weapon Die to a Dice Pool as an Item Die if you have the appropriate prowess for the weapon. If you lack prowess in a weapon, you can still use the weapon \u8211- you just don\u8217't get to add the Weapon Die to your pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hands:} Some weapons can be used freely in either hand, others require two hands to use, and some are just intended for main-hand use. These are represented by the following weapon qualities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Main Hand:} This weapon can be used in one hand. You can have another weapon in your other hand, but it must be usable in Either Hand.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Either Hand:} This weapon also requires only one hand to use, but unlike a Main Hand weapon, you can wield one in each hand (known as \u8220"dual wielding\u8221") or as a secondary weapon with a Main Hand weapon in your primary hand.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Both Hands:} You need both hands to use this weapon.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scale:} The scale of a weapon depends on the number of hands required to use it. Unless stated otherwise, Main Hand weapons are considered handheld scale, Either Hand weapons are pocket scale, and Both Hand weapons are portable scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Specialties:} These qualities list the specific specialties that can be used with that weapon. If a specialty isn\u8217't listed, it\u8217's up to the Gamemaster whether it\u8217's possible to use the weapon that way, and what kind of Drop penalty you\u8217'll receive; for example, using Parry with a musket or Aim with a rapier could have pretty heavy penalties \u8211- Drop 2 for the musket, Drop 4 for the rapier.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Aim:} Any attack with handheld weapons made at range uses the Aim specialty, from throwing a knife to firing a musket. If you have prowess in the weapon you\u8217're using, you can add its Weapon Die to your Aim roll as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Block:} Defense (Block) allows the use of armor and general toughness to throw off the effects of an attack. It can be used to negate attacks from either Dueling or Aimed weapons. You add your armor\u8217's Armor Die to your Block roll as an Item Die if you have Armor Prowess in that item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Brawl:} Only a few Dueling weapons can be used as part of a Military (Brawl) attack or defense; Brawl usually doesn\u8217't use an Item Die of any kind. Brawl can be used to inflict Yield, to disarm or knock down an opponent, or to defend against a Brawl attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Feint:} The primary use of Dueling (Feint) is to build Advantage during a fight through tricky maneuvering or a false attack to draw the your opponent off-guard. It can also inflict Yield or trigger a Riposte. If you have prowess in the weapon you\u8217're using, you can add its Weapon Die to your Riposte roll as an Item Die, although you can perform a Feint without a weapon also.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lunge:} A Lunge is a straightforward attack against an opponent using a Dueling weapon, usually by stabbing, chopping, slashing, or bashing. It\u8217's the best way to inflict either Yield or Wounds on your target. If you have prowess in the weapon you\u8217're using, add its Weapon Die to your Lunge roll as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Parry:} This specialty of the Defense skill can be used to negate incoming attacks from Dueling weapons, and if possible, trigger a Riposte. You need to have a weapon, improvised or otherwise, in your hand to attempt a Parry. If you have prowess in that weapon, add its Weapon Die to your Parry roll as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Riposte:} Dueling (Riposte) is a triggered Dueling attack that you can use by spending success points from another specialty \u8211- either Defense (Parry) or Dueling (Feint). A successful Riposte can inflict Yield or Wounds, or decrease your opponent\u8217's Advantage. The Defense (Parry) specialty cannot be used to defend against a Riposte. If you have prowess in the weapon you\u8217're using, you can add its Weapon Die to your Riposte roll as an Item Die.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Success Table Additions:} Some weapons have additions to the success tables for specific specialties, such as Knockdown or additional damage. These are represented by the + notation for success points, such as Lunge (+++: Unhorse).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Dueling Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dueling weapons are, by definition, weapons that can be used with the Dueling skill and its specialties \u8211- Lunge, Riposte, Feint, and Defense (Parry). Not all weapons can be used with all specialties, however.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dueling Weapon Prowess:} The types of Weapon Prowess used with dueling weapons are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cudgel Prowess:} Any Dueling weapon used to bludgeon someone is a cudgel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Knife Prowess:} In addition to serving as Dueling weapons, you can also throw some knives with the Aim specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Net Prowess:} A net can be used as a Dueling weapon, although this can be rare.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Polearm Prowess:} A polearm is any long-hafted Dueling weapon, typically (but not always) with the Reach quality.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sword Prowess:} A Dueling weapon with a blade and a hilt. The pointy end goes in the other guy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Whip Prowess:} Whips are usually used in one hand, and most have Reach.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dueling Weapon Qualities:} In addition to the qualities common to all weapons, dueling weapons could have two additional qualities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cavalry:} A dueling weapon with the Cavalry quality must be used with your Main Hand. If you are using this weapon while riding a mount, you can substitute the mount\u8217's Item Die for your Weapon Die against an unmounted opponent.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reach:} A dueling weapon with Reach can be used to attack into an adjacent area as well as your own.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Success Table Additions for Dueling Weapons:} Some dueling weapons have additions to the success tables for specific specialties, such as Knockdown or additional damage. These are represented by the + notation for success points after the specialty name, such as Lunge (+++: Unhorse). On a success with a weapon possessing that quality, you could spend 3 success points to knock your target off her horse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Break Weapon:} You snap your target\u8217's blade or hilt. You can only do this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails, or if you are performing a Parry yourself. A broken weapon is useless except as an improvised weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Disarm:} You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to attack you or the weapon she\u8217's using to Parry your attack. (This can\u8217't be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Execute a Riposte:} You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only way to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful use of a Specialty or weapon with this effect on its Success Table.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Grab:} You can snag an item worn by your target as long as you can see it, the item is Handheld size or smaller, and it\u8217's not being held by your opponent. You get to choose if the item ends up on the ground in your Area, or in your hand if you have one free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying. Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower cost than usual.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inflict 2 Wounds:} Your opponent takes two Wounds. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying. Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower cost than usual.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Knockdown:} Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. Prone characters suffer a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move until they stand up; standing up is a Drop 1 combined action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Restrain:} You successfully catch your opponent with your weapon, holding them in place. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional Success Points you spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a maximum of Drop 4. Your opponent can escape by making a simple check against Standard Opposition, usually using Brawl or a weapon attack. On a success, your opponent can break your weapon, let it fall in their Area, or grab it themselves.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Unhorse:} If your target is riding a mount, they fall off that mount and end up prone. Unhorsing an opponent can result in them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. In addition, your mount can make a trample attack right now for free, if it has that quality. Prone characters suffer a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move until they stand up. Standing up is a Drop 1 combined action, and remounting is an additional Drop 3 penalty.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Availability of Dueling Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To purchase any item you must roll against a pool consisting of that item\u8217's availability and its cost.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Common dueling weapons are those which aren\u8217't hard at all to find any settlement of decent size, and even in some smaller towns. Those are listed in the following tables.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The availability of common weapons is almost always 1D0 in settlements of any size. The exceptions are cutlass, rapier, sabre, and smallsword \u8211- the common swords \u8211- in a small rural settlement. In such situations, the availability increases to 1D6.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialties\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Buckler\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shield +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Block\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Club\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cutlass\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dagger\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Aim\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Quarterstaff\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Brawl\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rapier\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sabre\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Cavalry)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smallsword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Common Dueling Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Buckler:} A buckler is a small shield that can be strapped to your forearm, usually on your non-dominant hand. You can hold an item in that hand but trying to attack with that hand while wearing a buckler gives you a Drop 2 penalty on rolls using either the buckler or that weapon.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Club:} A standard club is simply a piece of wood or metal that you can swing at someone. It\u8217's not very sophisticated, but then again, you can likely pick one up wherever you are at any given time.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cutlass:} The favored weapon of buccaneers, pirates, and other sailors.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dagger:} A dagger is a large knife that can also be thrown using the Aim specialty.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Quarterstaff:} A medium-sized pole wielded in both hands that can also be used in a Brawl dice pool as well.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rapier:} The most common type of Sword is a sharp, pointy weapon that can be used for all types of fencing.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sabre:} A lighter and faster weapon, the sabre is designed to be used from horseback although it functions equally well when dismounted.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Smallsword:} Effectively a smaller, lighter version of a rapier, a smallsword can be used in the same way \u8211- or you could dual-wield two of them if you want.\line \sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Uncommon dueling weapons have an availability of 1D0 in a capital city, 1D6 in any other city, and 1D8 in villages and other rural areas. The one exception is that a bullwhip always has an availability of 1D0.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1266\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1563\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2605\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3573\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Specialties\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Backsword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bayonet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bullwhip\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Whip +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte, Feint (+++: Knockdown, +++++: Grab)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cat-O\u8217'-Nine-Tails\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Whip +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte, Feint (+++: Knockdown)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Glaive\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Halberd\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge (+++: Unhorse), Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hooked Net\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Net +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feint (++++: Knockdown)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lance\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Cavalry)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge (+++: Unhorse)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Longsword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main or Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mace\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main Gauche\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry (+: Execute a Riposte), Riposte (+: Decrease Advantage), Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pike\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pollaxe\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scourge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Whip +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riposte, Feint (++++: Inflict 1 Wound)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Spear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lunge, Feint, Aim\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Swordbreaker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry (+++++: Break Weapon), Riposte, Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Trident Dagger\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry (++++: Disarm), Feint\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Truncheon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parry, Lunge, Brawl\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1266\cellx1563\cellx2605\cellx3573\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weighted Net\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Reach)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Net +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feint (+++: Restrain)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Uncommon Dueling Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Backsword:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bayonet:} A bayonet is attached to the barrel of a musket and can be used as a Dueling weapon without having to change weapons.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bullwhip:} The bullwhip also can be used as a +1D6 Item Die for Husbandry when trying to control domesticated animals or drive off wild animals.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cat-O\u8217'-Nine-Tails:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Glaive:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Halberd:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Hooked Net:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lance:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Longsword:} When used with two hands, the Weapon Die of a longsword increases to +1D10.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Main Gauche:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Pike:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Pollaxe:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scourge:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Spear:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Swordbreaker:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Trident Dagger:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Truncheon:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Weighted Net:} {\i description needed}\line \sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Aimed Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An Aimed weapon is one that can be used with the Military (Aim) specialty. Larger ranged weapons are usually explosive weapons and use the Science (Blackpowder) specialty for attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Aimed Weapon Prowess:} There are five types of weapon prowess that are used with Aimed weapons. You can add the weapon\u8217's Item Die to the dice pool when making an attack roll with Aim if you have the appropriate weapon prowess.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bow Prowess:} Bows, including crossbows, use the Aim specialty to attack, and fire arrows or bolts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Knife Prowess:} In addition to serving as Dueling weapons, you can also throw some knives with the Aim specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Musket Prowess:} Muskets are an Aimed weapon with longer range than pistols, usually doing more damage and taking longer to reload.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Pistol Prowess:} An Aimed pistol can be fired with one hand.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Polearm Prowess:} Apart from their use as dueling weapons, some polearms \u8211- namely, spears \u8211- can be thrown with the Aim skill.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Aimed Weapon Qualities: In addition to the qualities common to all weapons, there are five that apply to Aimed weapons: the time needed to reload, and the effectiveness of the weapon at close, short, medium, and long ranges.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reload:} For Aimed weapons that require ammunition, the Reload quality indicates what kind of Drop penalty is imposed when combining the Reload action with another action. Most muskets have a Reload value of Drop 3, and pistols of Drop 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Close} Range{\b :} The Close Range quality is the Drop penalty imposed when firing an Aimed weapon at a target within your own area. Larger weapons such as bows or muskets tend to have a Drop penalty at Close Range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Short} Range{\b :} A target that is one or two areas away is at Short Range. With very few exceptions, nearly all Aimed weapons have no Drop penalty at Short Range.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Medium} Range{\b :} Medium Range is three or four areas. Most Aimed weapons have a Drop penalty at Medium Range. If a weapon doesn\u8217't have a listed Medium Range, it can\u8217't be used to effectively attack at that distance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Long Range:} At five or more areas distant, a target is at Long Range. All Aimed weapons that can be used at this distance have at least a Drop 1 penalty. If there is no Long Range listed for a weapon, it can\u8217't be used to attack at Long Range.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Maximum Range?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The tables below don\u8217't specify a maximum distance for long range. That\u8217's because areas are an abstract representation of distance, not exact measurements. Under ideal conditions, a weapon that has the long range quality could reach 10 or more areas away, depending on how the areas are set up for that encounter; in a crowded city street, the effective range will be much lower.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ultimately it\u8217's up to the Gamemaster to decide what the maximum effective range is for any weapon used at extreme long range, although usually not more than 10 areas.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx960\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1920\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3840\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4800\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6720\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7680\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reload\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Long\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arbalest\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arquebus\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blunderbuss\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Caliver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Composite Bow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crossbow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Double Musket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Double Pistol\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pistol +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dragon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main (Cavalry)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pistol +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flintlock Musket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flintlock Pistol\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pistol +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hunting Bow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rifled Musket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Musket +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Thrown Dagger\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Either\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Thrown Spear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polearm +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Aimed Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Arbalest:} Also known as a heavy crossbow, the arbalest is harder to use than a common crossbow but packs a larger punch.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Arquebus:} A smaller and lighter musket with shorter range and less firepower.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Blunderbuss:} The flared barrel of this musket makes it easier to reload, but also reduces its effective range.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Caliver:} Another type of musket that can reload faster without the reduced range of the blunderbuss, but with a smaller Weapon Die.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Composite Bow:} A heavier bow with longer effective range and pull.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Crossbow:} The crossbow uses stored mechanical power to fire bolts, instead of relying upon personal muscle power as a normal bow does.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Double Musket:} The primary advantage of this double-barreled musket is the ability to fire twice, once per barrel, without reloading. If you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the Weapon Die increases to 1D12, but you take a Drop 1 penalty because it\u8217's harder to aim. You can reload just one barrel of a double musket with a Drop 3 action.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Double Pistol:} Like the double musket, the double pistol allows one shot per barrel without having to reload. If you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the Weapon Die increases to 1D8, but you take a Drop 1 penalty because it\u8217's harder to aim. You can reload just one barrel of a double pistol with a Drop 2 action.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dragon:} This heavier version of a pistol is favored by cavalry \u8211- especially Dragoons, who take their name from the use of this large pistol.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Flintlock Musket:} This is a standard musket used by infantry throughout Europe.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Flintlock Pistol:} A single-barrel pistol found all over Europe.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Hunting Bow:} This standard bow, also called a shortbow or flatbow, has been used for millennia in pretty much every nation.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rifled Musket:} With a rifled barrel to provide better accuracy at long range, this musket is the favored weapon of snipers.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Thrown Dagger:} A dagger doesn\u8217't have be reloaded, but you take a Drop 1 penalty to draw it as you would with any other weapon \u8211- and once it\u8217's thrown, you don\u8217't have it any more.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Thrown Spear:} Like a dagger, a thrown spear must be drawn first but doesn\u8217't require ammunition.\line \sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Ammunition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Firing a musket or pistol uses a small amount of blackpowder and a bullet, while a bow requires an arrow.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 However, strict tracking of ammunition and powder doesn\u8217't contribute to the swashbuckling adventure style of the genre. If you have an Aimed weapon that has a Reload value, you\u8217're assumed to have enough powder, bullets, or arrows to fire your weapon and reload it as many times as necessary.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This applies even if you use someone else\u8217's weapon, or a weapon you just picked up \u8211- you just don\u8217't track ammo for Aimed weapons. Except, of course, for explosive weapons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Explosive Weapons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unlike conventional weapons, which use Dueling or Military (Aim) rolls for attack, explosive weapons affect an entire area and inflict damage on every creature, object, or other target within that area.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Base Damage:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Special:} {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inflict 1 Yield}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Inflict 2 Wounds}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Add 1 Area}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Increase Radius}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Radius}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Maximum Range}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Naval Areas}: {\i description needed}\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Supplies}: {\i description needed}\line \sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Damage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Special\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +: Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++: Inflict 2 Wounds\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++: Add 1 Area\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++: Add 1 Area\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +: Add 1 Area\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Grenades\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx960\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1920\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3840\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4800\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6720\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7680\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Delivery Mechanism\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reload\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Long\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Thrown\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenade +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mortar, hand\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx960\cellx1920\cellx2880\cellx3840\cellx4800\cellx5760\cellx6720\cellx7680\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arrow, fired\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Both\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Grenade Attacks\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1268\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1585\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3803\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4674\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5070\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6893\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Damage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Radius Steps\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Special\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close, Adjacent, Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +: Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++: Inflict 2 Wounds\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, heavy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Human-Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medium, Long\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, mining\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, powderhorn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pocket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, powderkeg\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close, Adjacent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, structure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Human-Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short, Medium, Long\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close, Adjacent, Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1268\cellx1585\cellx2456\cellx3803\cellx4674\cellx5070\cellx6893\cellx8636
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bomb, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carried\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++: Step-Up Radius\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Placed Bombs\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1661\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1993\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2906\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3902\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4815\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5479\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5977\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6475\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6973\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7471\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base Damage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Long\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Range\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Basilic\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Couleuvrine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Couleuvrine, grande\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 units\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Couleuvrine, moyenne\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Furniture\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Falconet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Human-Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mortar, heavy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 units\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rabinet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Human-Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1661\cellx1993\cellx2906\cellx3902\cellx4815\cellx5479\cellx5977\cellx6475\cellx6973\cellx7471\cellx8634
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vouivre-mignon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Furniture\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 unit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 Naval Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Artillery\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2304\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2688\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3840\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6528\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Projectile Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Extra Damage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Radius Steps\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Special\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, alchemical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close, Adjacent, Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +: Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, canister\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++: Inflict 2 Wounds\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, blackpowder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, chain\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +: Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, round\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, smoke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++: Step-Up Radius\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, thunder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1 Wound\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2304\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx4320\cellx6528\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cannon shot, wildfire\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 x2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Adjacent, Short, Medium\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++: Step-Up Radius\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Cannon Shot\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Armor is any kind of clothing or shield used to protect the wearer from attacks. Unlike normal clothing, most types of armor can\u8217't be enchanted by charmweaving. Armor provides an item die, also known as an Armor Die, that can be used on Block rolls. As with all other item dice, you can\u8217't include more than one Armor Die in any dice pools.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three types of armor: Flexible, Rigid, and Shield. Each type has its own associated armor prowess; if you wear armor of that type but lack the appropriate prowess, you take a Drop 2 penalty on all combat rolls (Defense, Dueling, Brawl, Aim).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flexible armor: }This type of armor is usually lighter and more comfortable to wear, although it may not fully protect the wearer. If you are wearing flexible armor, you can\u8217't wear an additional article of clothing on your torso (although all armor includes sufficient undergarments for the armor to be worn).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rigid armor:} Solid plates of steel or iron provide the defensive value of a suit of rigid armor. Like flexible armor, you can wear either armor or torso attire, but not both.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Shields:} A shield is carried in one hand and can be used for both Block and Parry rolls. You can\u8217't include more than one Armor Die in any dice pool, so you can\u8217't combine the Armor Dice of a shield and armor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following table lists the types of armor commonly found in Gallinea; each of these would have a +1D0 Availability Die in major cities, and +1D6 elsewhere.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Buckler\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block, Parry +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leather jerkin\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flexible\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Steel breastplate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rigid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Common Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Buckler: }A buckler is a type of small shield commonly used in dueling, usually paired with a rapier or other sword. They\u8217're good at deflecting blows as well as setting up an opponent for a riposte.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leather jerkin: }One of the most commonly worn armors, leather jerkins are simply leather vests or jackets reinforced with cuir bouilli shoulders and chest plates. While some can be decorated with artistic designs (for twice the price), the leather material can\u8217't support the enchantments needed for charmweaving.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Steel breastplate: }A hard, steel breastplate, also known as a cuirass, protects the vital organs of its wearer, with the exception of the head. As with most armor, you can\u8217't wear both a breastplate and an article of torso clothing, and the armor doesn\u8217't support charmweaving.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some less common armors are shown below. Each has an Availability Die in a city that equals its cost, and one or more steps higher in smaller towns.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Buff coat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flexible\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gambeson\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flexible\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Kite shield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block, Parry +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maille hauberk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Flexible\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Morion\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rigid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Parade armor\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rigid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plate armor\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rigid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Almain-rivet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rigid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block +1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Uncommon Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Buff coat:} Essentially a longer, reinforced gambeson, buff coats are favored by military officers. As with gambesons, they have charmwoven enchants; they are Soldier (1D6) social rank, can take Military (Brawl, Aim, or Strategy) charms, and are available in the full range of colors used in charmweaving. (See Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment,\u8221" for further details on charmweaving.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Gambeson: }Thick cloth padding makes these jerkins equal to leather in protective value, but the slightly longer construction time means they see less use. However, they can have charmwoven enchants added. Gambesons are considered to be Soldier (1D6) social rank, can have Defense (Block, Parry, or Dodge) charms added, and are only available in neutral colors. (See Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment,\u8221" for further details on charmweaving.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Kite shield:} Also known as a heater shield, this is larger than a buckler. The size prevents you from effectively using any Main Hand weapon at the same time as the shield.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Maille hauberk: }This is a jacket or vest made of chainmail. The protective benefits in modern Gallinea are outweighed by the time \u8211- and thus the cost \u8211- necessary to produce it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Morion:} This is an open-faced, steel helmet shaped somewhat like a hat with a ridge down the middle. Morions are favored by guards and infantry. While it gives minimal protection when used alone, it grants a +1D6 Bonus Die to Block rolls if you\u8217're wearing a steel breastplate. You can\u8217't wear an article of head attire while wearing a morion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Parade armor: }These are highly decorative suits of plate armor, each one individually made for its wearer. (They\u8217're only available in major cities, and even then usually have a +1D12 Availability Die.) Like other suits of plate armor, the wearer takes a Drop 2 penalty on Defense (Dodge), Dueling (Feint), and Nature (Prowl) rolls when parade armor is worn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 While the actual protective value of parade armor is less than a suit of plate armor, they are the only type of rigid armor that can take charms. Parade armor is Noble (1D10) social rank and can be made in any color. The helmet, breastplate, gauntlets, and boots can each have individual charms. See Chapter 9, \u8220"Specialty Equipment,\u8221" for more information on charmweaving.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Parade armor helmet charms can be Culture (Arts, Etiquette, Scholarship) or Observation (Perceive, Intuition, Deduce); breastplate charms can be Defense (Block, Parry, Dodge) or Interaction (Inspire, Negotiate, Deceive); gauntlet charms can be Military (Brawl, Aim, Strategy) or Streetwise (Banter, Carouse, Larceny); and boot charms can be Nature (Explore, Husbandry, Prowl) or Dueling (Lunge, Parry, Riposte). The entire suit of parade armor must be worn or none of the charms are active.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Plate armor:} Plate armor provides superior protective ability albeit at the expense of mobility. While you are wearing plate armor, you take a Drop 2 penalty on Dodge, Feint, and Prowl rolls. In addition, you can\u8217't wear any additional articles of clothing save for shoulder items such as cloaks or tabards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Almain-rivet:} Originally created in Germany (\u8220"Almain\u8221" references an Early Modern English term meaning \u8220"German\u8221"), these are cheap, easily constructed suits of partial plate armor used for equipping large armies. There\u8217's nothing glamorous about them; they\u8217're simply functional. You can\u8217't wear torso, head, or arm clothing items while wearing almain-rivet.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Alchemical Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters with the Magicks (Brew) specialty can produce draughts, salves, and concoctions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Draughts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Imbibing a draught is a Drop 1 combined action if the item is in hand; the effects last until the end of the scene. Draughts with increased potency have a cost equal to the die value; e.g., a D10 Aggression Draught has a cost of D10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Draughts provide a Charm die bonus on a given specialty. Since you can only include one Charm die in a given dice pool, a character can\u8217't benefit from both the draught and a charmwoven item that affect the same specialty, only one or the other.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affected Specialty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Accuracy Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (Aim)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Aggression Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dueling (Lunge)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courage Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Remove 1D6 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Detective\u8217's Vice\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Observation (Deduce)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Eagle Eyes Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Observation (Perceive)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Elusiveness Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense (Dodge)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mathematical Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Science (Calculus)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Memory Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 All knowledge rolls\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Serpent\u8217's Tongue Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interaction (Deceive)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soothing Words Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interaction (Negotiate)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tactics Draught\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (Strategy)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Teetotaler\u8217's Tea\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise (Carouse)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Draughts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Salves\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Salves, oils, and unguents are applied externally, usually to the hands, requiring one turn to use. The effects last until the end of the scene. Salves with increased potency have a cost equal to the die value.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2186\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3018\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Function\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brawler\u8217's Balm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (Brawl)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Farmer\u8217's Salve\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nature (Husbandry)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fireproofing Oil\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Science (Blackpowder)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Healing Unguent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medicine (Surgery, Treat) rolls made on the recipient\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nimblefingers Unction\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise (Larceny)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Silence Oil\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nature (Prowl)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2186\cellx3018\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weaver\u8217's Lotion\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magicks (Weave)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Salves\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Concoctions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Concoctions are mixtures that can be prepared beforehand or activated on the spot by an alchemist orother character with skill in Magicks (Brew). Making a Brew roll to produce a concoction takes one turn, with Moderate (3D8) standard opposition; successes are spent as shown on the table below. Each concoction created requires the expenditure of one unit of Alchemical Supplies.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1132\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Concoction\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Effect Produced\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Firefly Glow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Phosphorescent chemicals that glow for one hour per + spent. Can be applied to one item of pocket, handheld, or portable size.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nauseating Smell\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 A horrible odor fills one Area per + spent.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Neutralizing Agent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Negate one persistent effect caused by any concoction per + spent.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Oil Slick\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dodge rolls in an adjacent Area take a Drop penalty equal to the number of + spent.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Photoreactive Flash\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 A flash of light that can be seen up to one league away for every + spent.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1132\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smoke Cloud\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 A cloud of harmless smoke that fills one Area per + spent.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Concoctions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Poisons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three types of standard poisons in general use: lethal poison, impairing poison, and sleep poison. For general rules on how to use and apply poison, see the Medicine (Poison) specialty in the Skills document.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Poisons are created by expending Alchemical Supplies and making a Medicine (Poison) roll. New characters who are provocateurs can choose which poisons they wish to begin with.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Poison antidote is general-use and can be used against any type of standard poison. It\u8217's ineffective against some exotic poisons, such as yellow-bellied scorpion venom.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Function\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Antidote\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expend 1 per use of Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison, deadly\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expend 1 per use of Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison, impairing\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expend 1 per use of Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poison, sleep\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6, bulk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expend 1 per use of Poison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Poisons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Deadly Poison\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes Wounds equalling her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Impairing Poison\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict Drop Penalty:} Your opponent gains a Drop penalty on all rolls equal to one die for every three Success Points you spend, up to a maximum of Drop 4. This impairment lasts for 1 hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Sleep Poison\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Yield\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Yield:} Your opponent takes one Yield for every Success Point you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Clockworks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Clockwork Devices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each device consists of the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Casing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 or more Power Sources\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 or more Components\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gear Space:} Each casing has a certain amount of gear space available, depending upon its size. The power source and the components use up that space once installed. A miniaturization component can be installed in a casing to increase its effective gear space.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Power:} Each power source delivers a set amount of power, dependent on the type of power source and the method of producing that power. Each component consumes a specified amount of power, and the power source\u8217's output must be enough to cover the power used by the components. Power is measured in power units.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Complexity:} The complexity of a device is equal to the number of power sources plus the number of components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Constructing a Device\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Note: These rules are obsolute and this section needs to be rewritten to reflect the current crafting rules.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are five steps to creating a device:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Plan the Device\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Purchase the Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Build the Parts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Install the Parts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Complete the Device\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Plan the Device\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before you start, you should plan out what you want your device to do. Decide how large the device will be \u8211- the size of its casing. Determine what capabilities it will have by the components you choose to install, and make sure that you have a strong enough power source to provide power to those components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have the device planned out, you can spend four hours to make a Science (Calculus) roll to draft a set of plans for building the device. This is optional, but is highly recommended as it gives you an additional die to roll when installing parts in your device and completing it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The difficulty of the Science (Calculus) roll to draw plans is determined by the complexity of the device you are designing, as shown on the table below.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Device Complexity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 \u8211- 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 \u8211- 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hard (3D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9+\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult (3D12)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Device Complexity\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you earn at least two success points on the Science (Calculus) roll, you have successfully drawn plans that will give you (or anyone else who follows them) a D6 bonus on rolls to install and complete the device. For each additional two success points you spend, you can increase the size of that die up to a maximum limited by your ranks in Science (Calculus), as shown below.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculus Ranks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prototype:} If you have an existing prototype for the device, either created by yourself or by someone else, you gain a bonus D6 die on the roll to draw plans. The prototype does not need to be currently functional for you to gain this bonus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Purchase the Supplies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three ways to acquire the parts needed for constructing a device: build them yourself, buy them from another clockworker, or salvage the parts from another device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are going to build your own parts, you will need to buy gear supplies. Make a Wealth roll against the cost and availability of gear supplies \u8211- D8 for the cost, and D6 availability unless you are in a large city (in which case the availability is D0). Each success point on the Wealth roll enables you to buy one unit of gear supplies since they are a bulk item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are going to buy certain parts, you will also make a Wealth roll based on the cost of the part (casing, power source, or component) that you wish to purchase. The cost for each is listed in the descriptions of each part later in this chapter. A casing has an availability of D0, while power sources and components have an availability equal to the highest die of their costs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For details on salvaging parts and supplies, see the later section on Salvage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Build the Parts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can save money by building your own casing, although this does consume more time. A roll is not necessary, although you must have competency in the Science (Clockworks) specialty to construct a usable casing. See the later section on Constructing a Power Source for more information.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Building a power source or a component requires a number of gear supplies as shown on the table for that part, and at least four hours\u8217' work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point\u8217's worth of gear supplies to create components or power sources. Multiple rolls may be required to create all the parts needed for a complex device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skill Limit:} The total number of gears that you can spend on a single part is limited to your number of specialty ranks in Science (Clockworks).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Standard Opposition:} The difficulty for this roll is Easy (3D6) if you are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tools:}If you have clockworker\u8217's tools, you gain an item die (usually D6) on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Plans:} The plans for the overall device do not apply on this roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prototype:} You gain no bonus for having a prototype of the device when making this roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Install the Parts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Installing a power source or component in a casing requires a Science (Clockworks) roll (or series of rolls). The difficulty is Easy (3D6) if you are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not. Each roll takes four hours, and each success point installs one power source or component.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tools:} If you have clockworker\u8217's tools, you gain an item die (usually D6) on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Plans:} If you have plans for the device, you gain a bonus die based on the quality of the plans when making this roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prototype:} If you have a prototype of the device, you gain a bonus D6 die on this roll. The prototype does not need to be currently functional for you to gain this bonus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Complete the Device\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once all the components have been successfully installed, the device needs to be completed. This requires no roll, but does require one hour of work per point of complexity of the device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Casings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Casings are measured by their physical size, which determines the amount of gear space within the casing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Purchasing a Casing:} Casings are either purchased at the cost shown below or constructed by the clockworker for no cost. The availability of a casing is always D0. Gear supplies cannot be spent on casing costs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating a Casing:} It takes one hour per point of Gear Space to create a casing. No skill roll is required, but the clockworker must have at least one rank in the Clockworks specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Casing Notation:} A casing is described by listing the size of the casing followed by the gear space of that casing in parentheses. Examples: pocket (space 1), person (space 8), building (space 64).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casing Size\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gear Space\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pocket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Person\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carriage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Building\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 64\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Casings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Pocket Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A pocket-sized device is easily concealed, requires only one hand to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing. Examples include pocketwatches and wrist holsters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Handheld Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A handheld device requires usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Examples include clockwork pistols and gearswords.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Portable Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A portable device is one which requires two hands to carry and operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Most don\u8217't need to be self-mobile. Examples include clockwork muskets and wing-gliders.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Person Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An object roughly the size of a person \u8211- such as a statue \u8211- can\u8217't be easily carried by a single person without requiring her full attention. Most are therefore either stationary devices or self-mobile. Examples include humanoid automata and velocipedes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Carriage Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Larger than a human but smaller than a room, carriage-sized devices are on the scale of large pieces of furniture. Unless self-mobile, they require several people in order to transport. Examples include clockwork carriages and some industrial machines.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Room Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Room-sized devices take up the entire space of a sizable room, and are therefore rarely portable unless self-mobile. Examples include some analytical engines and most watermills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Building Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Devices the size of a building are usually as large as a two or three story building with a half-dozen rooms. Examples include airships and clock towers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Power Sources\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Power sources are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing, by how much power they can provide, and by how that power is activated to enable components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Purchasing a Power Source:} A power source can be purchased, pre-assembled, for the cost shown on the table for that power source. The availability is equal to the highest cost die of the power source.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Constructing a Power Source:} Unless otherwise specified, a power source can be constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear supplies as shown on the table for that power source, and at least four hours\u8217' work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point\u8217's worth of gear supplies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skill Limit:} The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a single power source is limited to her number of specialty ranks in Science (Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with Science (Clockworks) +3 can only spend 3 gears on creating a mainspring power source.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Note:} There are a few power sources that cannot be constructed using the Clockworks specialty. This will be noted in the description of the power source along with information about the required skill for construction. The roll is otherwise treated like the Clockworks specialty roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Power Source Notation:} A power source is described by listing the name of the power source followed by the space, power supply, other qualities of the power source, and the duration. Examples: gear train (space 1, power supply 2, Drop 1, one action); mainspring (space 4, power supply 4, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes); tension trigger (space 1, power supply 2, reset Drop 2, one use).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Alchemical Capacitor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An alchemical capacitor is a simple jar device that is used to generate, capture, and store electrical energy through alchemical means. A crude electromechanical interface allows the energy of the capacitor to be released and used over an extended period of time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each alchemical capacitor functions for 24 hours before needing to be replaced and reinstalled in a device. The power supply\u8217's duration is the same if it is used once during that time period or used repeatedly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating an Alchemical Capacitor:} The Magicks (Brew) specialty is required to create an alchemical capacitor, and it requires the use of alchemical supplies to do so. The maximum number of alchemical supplies that can be spent to create an alchemical capacitor is equal to the brewer\u8217's ranks in Magicks (Brew).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 alchemical supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 alchemical supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 alchemical supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 alchemical supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Alchemical Capacitor Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Gear Train\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A gear train is used to transmit mechanical energy to a device as part of the same action that uses the device; this mechanical energy is supplied by the muscular activity of the device\u8217's user. This activity is a combined action that imposes a Drop 4 to Drop 0 penalty on that action. The power thus supplied is only good for that specific action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, a velocipede might have a Drop1 penalty required to provide 3 units of power, which can then be used to power the carry and movement components of the velocipede. This imposes that Drop 1 penalty on actions undertaken by the rider of the velocipede during the turn in which it\u8217's ridden.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Variable Gear Train:} The power units and the drop penalty of any given gear train are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A gear train (space 0, power supply 2, Drop 2) will always supply 2 power units and require a Drop 2 penalty to operate. However, a gear train can be made variable by increasing the space by 1 and the cost by D6 (1 gear); this allows variable power supply based on the amount of Drop penalty taken to power it. For example, a variable gear train (space 0+1, power supply 1/2/3, Drop 1/2/4) supplies 1 power unit if a Drop 1 penalty is applied, 2 power units for a Drop 2 penalty, and 3 power units for a Drop 4 penalty.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Gear Train Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Blackpowder Flintlock\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A blackpowder flintlock is a kind of trigger that fires off once, using exploding blackpowder to provide energy to power the device\u8217's components. After the blackpowder flintlock is triggered, it must be reloaded with blackpowder and reset \u8211- a procedure which takes an amount of time as shown on the table below.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Creating a Blackpowder Flintlock: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is required to create a blackpowder flintlock, and it requires the use of clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can be spent to create a blackpowder flintlock is equal to the powderworker\u8217's ranks in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reset\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 blackpowder charge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Turns\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Turns\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Blackpowder Flintlock Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Mainspring\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A mainspring is a complex clockwork spring used to store power until it needs to be released. The initial power is put into the mainspring by winding it and then is released by a mechanical flywheel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The capabilities of a mainspring are measured in both how much power is provided and how that power is stored and released; each factor is purchased separately as shown on the tables below. To design a mainspring, you need to determine both the power output and the duration separately, paying the cost (in wealth rolls or gear supplies) for each.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A mainspring can\u8217't be wound for more than 10 minutes; at that point, the mainspring is holding the full amount of power that it is able to store and release.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b One Turn Winding/One Use per Success Point Duration:} If the winding time is one turn and the duration is one use per success point, make a Science (Clockworks) check against Easy (3D6) standard difficulty. Each success point grants one use of the device before the end of the scene.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Variable Mainspring:} The winding time and duration any given mainspring are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes) will always require 1 minute of winding and provide 10 minutes of power. However, a mainspring can be made variable by increasing the space by 1 and the cost by D6 (1 gear); this allows variable duration based on the amount of time spent winding it. For example, a variable mainspring (space 1+1, power supply 1, wind 1 turn/1 minute/10 minutes, duration 1 minute/10 minutes/1 hour) supplies power for 1 minute if wound for 1 turn, 10 minutes if wound for 1 minute, and 1 hour if wound for 10 minutes.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mainspring Power Source\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wind\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Turn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use per success point\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Turn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Turn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 minutes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 24 hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mainspring Options Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Naturalistic Turbine\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A naturalistic turbine is one that is hooked up to a source of power that exists in the natural world \u8211- running water, winds, or tidal flow. Naturalistic turbines produce a steady but low amount of power, without requiring any special actions or fuel to make them function. Setting up a naturalistic turbine to use any given natural energy supply requires one hour per power unit produced, so most are installed in permanent locations such as windmills or watermills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Natural Limits:} A stream can produce up to 2 power units, while larger rivers can supply up to 4. Wind power varies between 0 and 3 power units in most situations. Tidal flow usually only can provide 1 power unit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sails:} A sail takes up half the space of a normal naturalistic turbine, but the power supplied can only be used for movement. It also requires the purchase of one unit of fabric supplies per power unit.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Naturalistic Turbine Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Phlogistone Furnace\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A phlogistone furnace burns the rare mineral phlogistone to use for generating lift and propulsion. It is primarily used in airships and can be prohibitively expensive for other uses.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Limited Power:} Power units produced by a phlogistone furnace can only be used to power carry and movement components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Envelope:} A charmwoven cloth envelope is necessary for use with a phlogistone furnace; this requires the skills of a charmweaver with at least 4 specialty ranks in Magicks (Weave).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fuel:} Each hour that a phlogistone furnace is in use, it burns one pound of phlogistone per power unit supplied. The amount of power supplied can be reduced by burning lesser quantities of phlogistone.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating a Phlogistone Furnace:} The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is required to create a phlogistone furnace, and it requires the use of clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can be spent to create a phlogistone furnace is equal to the powderworker\u8217's ranks in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Envelope Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Envelope Supplies\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 (carry or movement only)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 (carry or movement only)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 fabric\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Phlogistone Furnace Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Tension Trigger\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A tension trigger stores energy for use and then releases it. To reset a tension trigger, you need to take a reset action, which is a combined action with a penalty of Drop 1 to Drop 4. Unlike gear trains, tension triggers store energy for future use rather than immediate use, but unlike mainsprings a tension trigger will only store that energy for a single use.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power Supplied\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reset\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One use\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Tension Trigger Power Source\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Components\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Components provide the basic functionality of a clockwork device, and are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing, by how much power require to run, and by the effects the component can produce.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Purchasing a Component:} A component can be purchased, pre-assembled, for the cost shown on the table for that component type. The availability is equal to the highest cost die of the component.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Constructing a Component:} Unless otherwise specified, a component can be constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear supplies as shown on the table for that component, and at least four hours\u8217' work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point\u8217's worth of gear supplies to construct components or power sources.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skill Limit:} The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a component is limited to her number of specialty ranks in Science (Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with +3 Science (Clockworks) can only spend 3 gears on creating a movement component.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Component Notation:} A power source is described by listing the name of the power source followed by the space, power requirements, and other qualities of the component. Examples: articulation (space 1, power 0, Drop 1); carry (space 2, power 1, person); projectile weapon (space 3, power 1, weapon die d8, close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long Drop 2).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Armor plating protects both the device itself and anyone using or within the device. The armor component grants an Armor Die that can be used for Defense (Block) rolls.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Armor Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Armor Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Articulation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Clockwork devices are inherently clumsy; if used as replacements for a human\u8217's natural ability, they take a Drop 4 penalty on associated actions. This is primarily the case when someone replaces part of her body with a clockwork limb, such as an arm or a leg. The articulation component reduces those penalties from Drop 4 down to Drop 2, Drop 1 or Drop 0.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating an Articulation Component:} The Medicine (Surgery) specialty is required to create an articulation component with a low Drop penalty. Surgery +1 is required for Drop 1, and Surgery +2 for Drop 0.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Penalty\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Articulation Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Calculation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The calculation component gives the device the ability to compute certain values when given appropriate information. The simplest form of calculation is simple timekeeping; nearly any clockwork device can be made to function as a clock.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 More advanced calculations can compute the calendar date (including holy days and stellar phenomenon), plot out a navigation course, do complex polynomial math such as ballistics, or even do relatively complex analytical analysis.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unless the device has the measurement component, it is reliant upon user input for all appropriate information, such as the longitude and latitude, the weather conditions, and so on. Faulty data can lead to faulty calculations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating a Calculation Component:} The Science (Calculus) specialty is required to create a calculation component and it requires the use of clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can be spent to create a calculation component is equal to the creator\u8217's ranks in Science (Calculus).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calculation Complexity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Timekeeping\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Calendar\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Navigation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Polynomials\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Analytics\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Calculation Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Carry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The carry component gives a device the ability to lift additional weight. Most devices with the movement component have enough carrying capacity to lift themselves, including a normal load; some have even greater capacity depending on their use.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carrying Capacity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pocket\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portable\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Person\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carriage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Room\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Building\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Carry Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Delay Timer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A delay timer prevents a power source from providing power to a device until a fixed amount of time has passed. To use the delay trigger component, first it must be armed and the length of delay set. The delay durations shown are not randomly determined but are set by the user, although each with a set range has a minimum of one time unit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Delay timers are most frequently used with blackpowder flintlock or tension trigger power sources, and often trigger projectile weapon traps or bombs.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Delay Duration\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 End of current action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Turn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1-10 Turns\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Turn\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1-10 Minutes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1-8 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1-6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Delay Timer Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Efficiency\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The efficiency component reduces the time necessary to do a simple, repetitive task. For combined actions, this reduces the Drop penalty by 1, 2 or 4 \u8211- but with a minimum of Drop 1. For other repetitive tasks this reduces the time needed to complete those tasks, through mechanical automation. For example, a mechanized loom could cut in half the time needed to produce simple cloth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An efficiency component cannot reduce the time of complex tasks that involve specialty rolls, such as charmweaving or surgery.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Reduction\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time Reduction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Drop by 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Time by 10%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Drop by 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Time by 25%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Drop by 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Time by 50%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Time by 75%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reduce Time by 90%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Efficiency Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Explosion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This component produces a loud and potentially deadly explosion. It\u8217's used in creating bombs or grenades.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Power Requirement:} An explosion component can only be powered by a blackpowder flintlock or an alchemical capacitor. Note that blackpowder flintlocks are a lot more effective at powering an explosion than an alchemical capacitor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Environmental Damage:} An explosion does damage to everything inside a given area. More powerful explosions also do damage in adjacent areas, and even targets up to 2 areas away for the most powerful explosions. This environmental damage inflicts one yield for one success point, and one wound for three success points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Self-Destruction:} Upon use, the device is destroyed by the force of its own explosion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Creating an Explosion Component:} The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is required to create an explosion component and it requires the use of blackpowder supplies to do so. The maximum number of blackpowder supplies that can be spent to create an explosion component is equal to the powderworker\u8217's ranks in Science (Blackpowder).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Environmental Damage (1 area, 2 areas)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 blackpowder charge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D10 (3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D12 (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 blackpowder charges\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D12 (3D10, 3D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Explosion Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Hand-to-Hand Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Hand-to-Hand Weapon component gives a device the ability to be used as a weapon by granting it a Weapon Die, and assigning it a Weapon Prowess category. Choose one option from each of the following tables to define a complete Hand-to-Hand Weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Size Limit:} A device with the hand-to-hand weapon component can be no larger than Portable size.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hand-to-Hand Weapon Component\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1234\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2468\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3702\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4936\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6170\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7404\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casing Size\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Prowess\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Max Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pocket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Handheld\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cudgel\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Portable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pike\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hand-To-Hand Weapon Component Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Injector\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The injector component gives a device the ability to inject a fluid, such as an alchemical solution or a vial of poison, into a living creature. A device can hold only one dose and it takes a Drop 4 action to refill the device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Using the device in a combat situation requires a Medicine (Poisons) roll to deliver its payload.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Injector Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Item Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The item die component allows you to add an Item Die for one specialty to a device. For example, a spyglass could provide an Item Die on Observation (Perceive) rolls, or a tricked-out screwdriver could provide an Item Die on Science (Clockwork) rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To provide a bonus to more than one specialty, add another Item Die component for each additional specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Defense (Parry), Dueling:} Use the Hand-to-Hand Weapon component to add a melee Weapon Die to a device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Defense (Block):} Use the Armor component to add an Armor Die to a device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Initiative:} These specialties can never benefit from an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Military (Aim):} Use the Projectile Weapon component to add a ranged Weapon Die to a device.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Item Die Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Magazine\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A magazine component holds multiple shots of ammunition (bullets and powder or quarrels, for example) for a device with the projectile weapon component. The amount held in each magazine, and the time required to reload the device with a full magazine, are shown in the table below.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shots\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reload\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Turns\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Turns\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 32\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Turns\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Magazine Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Measurement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The measurement component allows a device to take a reading of the physical environment around it. By default, this is displayed on the device in some way. Examples of qualities that can be measured include the temperature, barometric pressure, altitude, longitude and latitude, velocity, oceanic depth, compass directions, sound levels, and more. A worn device could measure the wearer\u8217's speed, heart rate, or blood pressure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A measurement component is often tied to a calculation component to allow the device to process the information that it measures.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Qualities Measured\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Measurement Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Miniaturization\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The miniaturization component doesn\u8217't actually add any capabilities to a device, but it makes it easier to fit more into the casing of the device. The component makes space in the device by reducing the size of existing components; this is reflected by additional gear space that is added to that of the casing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unique Component:} A device can have only one miniaturization component.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Additional Gear Space\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Miniaturization Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Movement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The movement component gives the device the ability to move itself.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Carry Component Required:} A device with a movement component must have a carry component of at least the same size as the device\u8217's casing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Roll:} The device moves at half speed when not on a road or other flat surface.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Climb:} The device can move up and down vertically.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Step:} The device can walk like a human or animal.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Glide:} The device must maintain at least Walk speed in order to stay aloft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Float:} The device is a boat or ship and can travel on the surface of the water.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Submerge:} In addition to being able to float on the surface of the water, the device can go beneath the waves like a submersible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fly:} The device can fly through the air. Unless it is powered by a Phlogistone Furnace, the device must maintain a minimum of Walk speed in order to stay aloft.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1234\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2468\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3702\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4936\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6170\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7404\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Walk\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Run\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Overland Speed\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 league per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Movement Component\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Movement Mode\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Speed\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Roll\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Step\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Climb\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Glide\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Float\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Submerge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fly\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 Areas\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Movement Component Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Powered Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A powered weapon is a melee weapon that has been modified with moving parts to make it even more deadly \u8211- for example, a rotating flail or a chain-toothed sword. The powered weapon component grants a bonus die that can be used whenever the device\u8217's Weapon Die is used, including Defense (Parry) rolls and Dueling rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Size Limit:} A device with the powered weapon component can be no larger than Portable size.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Requires Hand-to-Hand Weapon:} You can only add this component to a device if it already possesses the hand-to-hand weapon component. The powered weapon Bonus Die cannot exceed the Weapon Die of the device.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Table: Powered Weapon Component\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Space | Cost | Supplies | Power | Bonus Die |\line :\u8212-: | ;\u8211-: | :\u8212-\u8212-: | :\u8212-: | :\u8212-\u8212-\u8211-: |\line 1 | D6 | 1 gear | 1 | D6 |\line 1 | D8 | 2 gears | 1 | D8 |\line 2 | D10 | 3 gears | 2 | D10 |\line 4 | D12 | 4 gears | 3 | D12 |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Projectile Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A projectile weapon component fires a bullet, dart, arrow, quarrel, cannonball, or other projectile at a target. Most devices use the Military (Aim) specialty to attack, and gain a Weapon Die when doing so. As with other missile weapons in The Queen\u8217's Cavaliers, it\u8217's not necessary to track ammunition carried, but it is necessary to know whether or not the weapon is loaded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition to selecting the Weapon Die, reload time, and range modifiers for the weapon, the designer also specifies which Weapon prowess is used with the weapon. Devices which require the Cannon weapon prowess use the Science (Blackpowder) specialty for attacks instead of Military (Aim).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Magazine:} A projectile weapon can optionally be fitted with a magazine component to increase the number of times it can be fired without reloading. In such a situation, the projectile weapon component loses its reload quality and uses the reload time of the magazine instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Size Limit:} A device with the projectile weapon component can be no larger than Carriage size. (For cannons on larger buildings or ships, just place the cannons as separate devices.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ranges:} The range of a projectile weapon component is determined by adding together a composite of all chosen range lines. Lines cannot be combined if they both contain a value for the same range. All ranges must be filled in with a Drop penalty or N/A.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The default ranges for a weapon with no extra space, cost, or power requirements are: close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 1, long N/A.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weapon Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reload\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Projectile Weapon Component\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1080\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3240\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5400\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7560\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Space\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Supplies\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Power\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Close (0)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short (1-2)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medium (3-4)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Long (5+)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 N/A\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Do\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 N/A\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 N/A\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 N/A\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1080\cellx2160\cellx3240\cellx4320\cellx5400\cellx6480\cellx7560\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 gears\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Projectile Weapon Component Range Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Table: Projectile Weapon Component Use Options | Space | Cost | Supplies | Power | Casing Size | Max Weapon Die | Skill Prowess | | :\u8212-: | :\u8211-: | :\u8212-\u8212-: | :\u8212-: | :\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-- | :\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-- | :\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-- | | +0 | D0 | 0 gears | +0 | Pocket | Pistol +1D6 | Pistol | | +0 | D0 | 0 gears | +0 | Handheld | Pistol +1D8 | Pistol | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Handheld | Bow +1D8 | Crossbow | | +0 | D0 | 0 gears | +0 | Portable | Bow +1D10 | Crossbow | | +0 | D0 | 0 gears | +0 | Portable | Musket +1D10 | Musket | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Portable | Cannon +1D10 | Cannon | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Person | Bow +1D12 | Crossbow | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Person | Musket +1D12 | Musket | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Person | Cannon +1D12 | Cannon | | +0 | D0 | 0 gears | +0 | Carriage | Cannon +1D12 | Cannon | | +0 | D6 | 1 gear | +0 | Carriage | Crossbow +1D12 | Crossbow |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Sample Devices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Design Note:} I haven\u8217't yet rechecked all of these yet, so some of them might be added up incorrectly or may be using earlier versions of some of the components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Autoloader (pistol, musket)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Pocket (gear space 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1), Miniaturization (gear space +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D6 (1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:} D6 (1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 3\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An autoloader can be attached to a pistol or a musket to speed up the reloading of the gun.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Autoloader (cannon)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (gear space 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 0, power supply 1, Drop 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Efficiency (space 4, power 1, reduce reload time by 50%)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An autoloader attached to a cannon reduces the reload time from 4 rounds to 2 rounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Climbing Gears\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (space 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn, duration one use per success point)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Movement (space 2, power 1, walk, climb), Carry (space 2, power 1, person), Miniaturization (space +2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D8 (2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 4\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Climbing gears are worn as a harness and operated with two hands, allowing you to move between areas which are normally not passable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockbow\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (space 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, drop 0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Projectile Weapon (space 3, power 1, weapon die d8, close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long Drop 2), Magazine (space 1, 4 shots, power 0, reload Drop 4), Miniaturization (space +1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} 4D6 (3)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:} D10 (3)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 4\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A clockbow is a clockwork crossbow, fitted with a magazine that holds four quarrels that can be fired before reloading.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockwork Carriage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Carriage (space 16)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Mainspring (space 4, power supply 4, wind 10 minutes, duration 1 hour)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Movement (space 2, power 2, gallop, roll), Carry (space 4, power 2, carriage)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} 3D10 (9)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 3\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockwork Limb (arm)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Handheld (space 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Carry (space 0, power 1, hand), Articulation (space 0, power 0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D12 (4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 4\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockwork Limb (leg)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (space 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Carry (space 2 power 1, person), Articulation (space 0, power 0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 4\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockwork Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Handheld (space 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset Drop 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Projectile Weapon (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas, damage D6, reload Drop 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Clockwork Musket\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Handheld (space 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset Drop 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Projectile (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas, damage D6, reload Drop 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D8 (2 or 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Gearsword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Handheld (space 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 1 turn, duration\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab uses)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Hand-to-Hand Weapon (space 2, power 0, weapon die D8), Powered Melee Attack (space 1, power 1, bonus weapon die D6), Miniaturization (space +2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D10 (3)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Great Gearsword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (space 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn, duration\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab uses)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Melee Attack (space 4, power 0, weapon die D10), Powered Melee Attack (space 2, power 2, bonus weapon die D10), Miniaturization (space +4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} (7)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Pocketwatch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Pocket (space 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 10 minutes, duration 24 hours)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Calculation (space 0, power 1, timekeeping)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D8 (2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Wing-Glider\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Portable (space 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Gear Train (space 1, power 2, usage Drop 1, duration 1 Action)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Carry (space 2, power 1, person), Movement (space 3, power 1, speed run, gliding)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D12 (4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 3\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Wrist Holster\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Pocket (space 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Source:} Tension Trigger (space 0, power supply 1, reset Drop 2, duration 1 use)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:} D6 (1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Airship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Casing Size:} Building (space 64)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Power Sources:} Mainspring (space 8, power supply 6, wind 10 minutes, duration 24 hours), Phlogistone Furnace (space 8, power supply 10, movement and carry only), Gear Train x4 (space 1, power 5, Drop 4)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Components:} Movement (space 16, power 7, cruise, fly), Carry (space 16, power 8, building), Armor (space 8, power 0, Armor Die D12), Calculation (space 2, power 1, navigation)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Construction Cost:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b List Cost:} 4d12\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Complexity:} 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Design Note:} This airship definitely needs to be recalculated.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Repairing and Salvaging Clockwork Devices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Charmweaving, is the practice of adding specific dyes, trinkets, threads, and other magickal enhancements to articles of clothing. These enhancements provide bonuses to specific tasks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Clothing Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Articles of clothing have the following qualities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Worn On:} Each article of clothing is designed to be worn on a specific part of your body \u8211- head, shoulders, torso, hands, legs, or feet. In general, you can wear only one item per location, although you may be able to stack multiple cloaks on your shoulders under certain circumstances \u8211- check with your Gamemaster to be sure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Items worn on the legs can\u8217't have charms woven into them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Social Rank:} Some items are associated with certain social ranks. This doesn\u8217't restrict what you can wear, regardless of your own social rank, but it may affect how you and your outfit are seen by others. The social rank of an article of clothing can be used as an availability die in a purchase roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scale:} Articles of clothing are usually handheld scale when carried, and don\u8217't contribute to encumbrance when worn if the optional system for encumbrance is used. Items wrapped up in a box for gifting or transport are one scale category higher, including the packaging.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following table lists the most common types of clothes that are found in Gallinea.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Worn On\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Beret, artisan\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, fine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Boots, military\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Boots, work\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Breeches\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cape, cloth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cape, fur\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casaque\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalier hat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chopines\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloak\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Doublet, common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Doublet, fine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, courtier\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, craftsman\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, farmer\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, soldier\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hands\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Goggles, gearspring\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gown, courtly\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gown, surgeon\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair ribbons\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hose\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Masque\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pantaloons\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pantofles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Petticoat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plague mask\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poulaines\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Robes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sandals\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shift\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoes, buckled\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skirt\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Common (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skullcap, clerical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smock\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stockings\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Legs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Commoner (1D0)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stole, liturgical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stole, ornate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Noble (1D10)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tabard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tricorne\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military (1D6)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vestments\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan (1D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Articles of Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Standard outfits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many outfits just naturally go together. Every new character starts with one or two standard outfits depending on her class and backstory. In addition to sharing a common cost, outfits are all considered part of the same social rank, regardless of the actual social rank of each item.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1746\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2389\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Includes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworker outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches, craftsman\u8217's gloves, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Corsair outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tricorne, doublet, soldier\u8217's gloves, pantaloons, boots\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtly outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crafter outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan\u8217's beret, smock, breeches, craftsman\u8217's gloves, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Peasant outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shift, breeches, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Physician outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plague mask, surgeon\u8217's gown, breeches, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Priest outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier\u8217's gloves, breeches, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scholar\u8217's outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6+1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ornate stole, robes, breeches, poulaines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1746\cellx2389\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Swashbuckler outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalier hat, doublet, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, cloth cape\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Standard Outfits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Clockworker outfit (Artisan 1D8):} This is worn while doing mechanician work, and usually has a lot of extraneous pockets and loops for tools and gears. The most notable feature is the set of gearspring goggles, which give an item die bonus of Perceive +1D6 on visual checks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Corsair outfit (Soldier 1D6):} Worn by sailors and pirates around the world, and by many would-be buccaneers, this outfit certainly captures the look of the chic privateer.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Courtly outfit (Noble 1D10):} Nobles, and those who must interact with them, are known for their outlandishly ornate couture and finely arranged coiffure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crafter outfit (Artisan 1D8):} Similar to a clockworker outfit, a crafter outfit is for doing productive work, be it artistic, magickal, or smithing in content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Military outfit (Soldier 1D6):} Military outfits come with an appropriate tabard from the correct military unit, noble house, mercenary group, or city guard. For example, a veteran/constable may have one tabard from the French army, and another from the Parisian watch. Military outfits don\u8217't come with a torso item, to facilitate the wearing of armor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Peasant outfit (Commoner 1D0):} Plain and practical, peasant outfits can be found throughout Europe, and in nearly every social rank. As they\u8217're easily patched, many peasant outfits are simply stitched together from different types and colors of fabric.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Physician outfit (Artisan 1D8):} The notable feature of this outfit is the large, vaguely bird-shaped mask used during surgery; the beak of this mask contains herbs and cloth meant to filter out diseases. Most physician outfits start out white in color, but quickly become stained with crimson.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Priest outfit (Artisan 1D8):} The traditional dress of clergy varies by their rank within the church.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scholar\u8217's outfit (Artisan 1D8):} Students and instructors at universities, seminaries, officer schools, and other institutions of higher learning are expected to dress in traditional scholarly robes while teaching or attending classes. Outside of class, of course, they\u8217're free to wear whatever they want.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Swashbuckler outfit (Soldier 1D6):} The cavalier hat, the billowing cape, the high boots \u8211- anyone wearing this outfit cuts a dashing figure indeed. While some such outfits are more sedate and refined, many look are flamboyant to an excessive degree.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 (subchapter) Charmwoven Attire\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 The Nine Laws of Fashion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Charmwoven clothes are useful, stylish, and expensive, but they are also made according to exacting standards known as the Nine Laws of Fashion. Flouting these laws could lead to your Charms simply failing to work at all!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The First is the simplest Law:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The First Law: The Law of Couture\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"One\u8217's clothes must fit properly.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It seems obvious at first \u8211- clothing is meant to be worn and to fit properly! But it\u8217's also the most important. If your clothes aren\u8217't sized correctly for you, none of the charms will function. In addition, each off-size article of clothing you wear adds a Drop 1 penalty to combat actions if it\u8217's too large or too small.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To ensure your clothes are properly sized, you can\u8217't just buy your clothes off the rack; the people of France are a diverse group when it comes to body size, and there are no \u8220"standard sizes\u8221". Your clothes will need to be either be created specifically for you, or altered by a tailor. Only then can charms be effectively added to such apparel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Second Law: The Law of Attunement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Charms are unique to the wearer.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can\u8217't just pick up any random charmwoven item and put it on, even if it fits you. The patterns, glyphs, and trinkets sewn into charmwoven clothing have to be calibrated for each wearers. This is a pretty simple process \u8211- as long as the charmweaver knows your birth date, birth time, and place of birth. It usually takes about an hour to attune or reattune charms to any given person.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What if you don\u8217't know some or any of that information to tell your charmweaver? There are two options.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 First, your charmweaver can attempt to adjust the charms to you anyway, through trial and error. This takes one hour per piece of information about your birth that you\u8217're missing. At the end of that process, the charmweaver makes a simple Magicks (Weave) roll with the opposition pool based on how much they don\u8217't know, as shown on the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Birth Date\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Birth Time\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Place of Birth\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Exact date\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time, to the minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 City or village of birth\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Year and month known\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Time, to the hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Province of birth\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Month known\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Morning or Night\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Country of birth\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Year known\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Continent of birth\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nothing known\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nothing known\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nothing known\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Opposition Pool for Charm Attunement Rolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The dice pool is based on all of these factors \u8211- so if you know the exact date of your birth, that you know you were born in the morning, and that you were born somewhere in Russia, that\u8217's an opposition pool of 1D0+1D8+1D8, or 2D8. As it\u8217's a simple check, the charmweaver needs just one success point to correctly attune the item. On a failed check, the charmweaver needs to start over again to attune the item.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The second option involves the use of Magicks (Portents), and for this reason many charmweavers either work with those who can read omens, or can do so themselves.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The opposition pool for the Portents roll is the same as the pool calculated above for the trial-and-error method using the Magicks (Weave) specialty, but this is a standard roll not a simple roll. It takes one minute to perform this type of reading, the portent-reader must see you the entire time, and you must be willing to have it done. Each success point spent reveals either your birth date, your birth time to the minute, or your city or village of birth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Third Law: The Law of Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"The charm must correspond to the article.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Simply stated, this means that a charm can only be applied to an item that has some relationship to the type of enchantment desired.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, gloves for soldiers can be given charms that assist with Dueling or Military (Aim), while gloves for craftsmen can be charmed for Magicks, Medicine, or Science.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent skills for any given type of clothing are found later in this chapter, in the \u8220"Articles of Clothing\u8221" section. The \u8220"Creating Charmwoven Clothing\u8221" section, also found in this chapter, summarizes which types of charms can be applied to which pieces of attire.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Fourth Law: The Law of Dissonance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Dissonance limits the effectiveness of charms.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description of dissonance needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance Level\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum Charm Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 No limits\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 or more\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 None\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Fifth Law: The Law of Cacophony\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Unrestrained use of color creates dissonance.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Additional Colors\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 or more\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance Generated by Cacophony\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Sixth Law: The Law of Neutrality\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Neutral colors do not generate dissonance.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Seventh Law: The Law of Darning\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Rips, tears, and holes produce dissonance.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Unrepaired Rips\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 or more\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance Generated by Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Eighth Law: The Law of Station\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Outfits of mismatched attire produce dissonance.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mismatched refers to the social rank associated with each item. Predefined outfits automatically count as a single rank.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Step of Mismatch\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 or more\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance Generated by Social Rank Mismatch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 The Ninth Law: The Law of {\i Dernier Cri}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Dated fashions generate dissonance.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This only applies to items or outfits of social rank 1D10.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Years\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 or older\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dissonance Generated by Dated Fashions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Wearing Charmwoven Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Wearing Mundane Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Articles of Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Arm Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Skills\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, Courtier\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, Craftsman\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magicks, Medicine, Science\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, Soldier\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Military\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gloves, Farmer\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Arm Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i descriptions needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Torso Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Skills\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, Common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interaction, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, Fine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Interaction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casaque\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Defense, Dueling, Military\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Doublet, Fine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Interaction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Doublet, Common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Interaction, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gown, Courtly\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gown, Surgeon\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Interaction, Medicine, Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Robes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shift\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magicks, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smock\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Magicks, Science\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vestments\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Torso Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i descriptions needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Foot Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Skills\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Boots, Military\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Military, Nature\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Boots, Work\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chopines\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pantofles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Defense\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Poulaines\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Military\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sandals\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoes, Buckled\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Foot Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Head Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The people of France wear many different kinds of hats, with a type of headwear available to every type of charm \u8211- all the skills, with the exception of Initiative. The types of hats available are shown in the following table.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Skills\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Beret, Artisan\u8217's\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Magicks, Science\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalier Hat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Goggles, Gearspring\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military, Observation, Science\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair Ribbons\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Magicks\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Masque\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plague Mask\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medicine, Observation, Science\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skullcap, Clerical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Observation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tricorne\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Head Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Beret, Artisan\u8217's:} The simple woolen beret is common among crafters, and you can get a beret in many different colors.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Capotain:} A capotain is a tall hat, usually flat on the top, with a narrow brim. Most capotains are black in color, and many sport buckles in front.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cavalier Hat:} Cavalier hats have a wide brim and are usually worn with one side pinned up. A dyed ostrich feather is often added, both for appearance\u8217's sake and to allow all-black hats to take a charm.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Goggles, Gearspring:} These goggles are created and used by mechanicians as well as other crafters. Each set of goggles has two or more pairs of lenses that can be swapped in as necessary \u8211- functions include magnification of small objects, telescopic sighting of distant objects, filters for specific colors, or simple eye protection. Gearspring goggles offer a +1D6 Item Die on Observation (Perception) rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hair Ribbons:} Magickally charmed hair ribbons are popular with the upper classes and are woven into the hairstyles \u8211- or wigs \u8211- of any gender of noble. Unless affixed to a wig (which must be one of the neutral colors of argent, brun\u226?tre, cendree, or sable), the ribbons require anywhere from ten minutes to several hours to weave into hair, or double that time if forced to don them without the help of a capable household servant.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Masque:} Not a bandanna clumsily worn by a common brigand to disguise her identity, a masque actually does little to hide one\u8217's appearance. Used by the nobility at their lavish parties, each is custom created to reflect the wearer\u8217's persona and opinions of herself. Many masques only encircle the eyes and the space between them, while others cover the entire face.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Plague Mask:} Part of a chirurgeon\u8217's standard surgical wear, a plague mask is usually styled like a bird\u8217's long beak, although other examples exist, such as long tusks or simply a cylinder. Goggles built into the mask provide covering for the chirurgeon\u8217's eyes, while medicinal herbs and complex filters in the \u8220"nose\u8221" cavity prevent infection of air-carried diseases.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skullcap, Clerical:} Sometimes called calottes, these skullcaps are associated with clergy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tricorne:} These felt hats have wide brims like cavalier hats, but are pinned up on the sides and backs, forming them into triangular shapes. Tricornes are most popular among sailors and members of the military, with officers using them to display medals and other symbols of rank.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Shoulder Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder charms tend to be about skills that are flashy and attention-getting, although a few have use in disguising or hiding the wearer.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Skills\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cape, Cloth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cape, Fur\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Dueling, Interaction, Magicks\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloak\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Magicks, Nature, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stole, Liturgical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Magicks\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stole, Ornate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Culture, Interaction, Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tabard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Military\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder Apparel\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i descriptions needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Standard Outfits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1609\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1947\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2878\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Social Rank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Includes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clockworker Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches, craftsman\u8217's gloves, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Corsair Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tricorne, doublet, soldier\u8217's gloves, pantaloons, boots\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtly Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier\u8217's gloves, skirt, chopines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crafter Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan\u8217's beret, smock, breeches, craftsman\u8217's gloves, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Peasant Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shift, breeches, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Physician Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plague mask, surgeon\u8217's gown, breeches, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Priest Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier\u8217's gloves, breeches, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1609\cellx1947\cellx2878\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Swashbuckler Outfit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cav alier hat, doublet, soldier\u8217's gloves, breeches, boots, cape\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 standard Outfits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i descriptions needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Creating Charmwoven Clothing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Culture\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casaque, courtly gown, robes, smock, vestments\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chopines, pantofles, poulaines, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan\u8217's beret, hair ribbons, clerical skullcap\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Culture Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Defense\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, casaque, doublet\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military boots, pantofles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalier hat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloth cape, cloak, tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Defense Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Dueling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, casaque, doublet\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalier hat, masque\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloth cape, fur cape, cloak, tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dueling Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Initiative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Initiative Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Interaction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, doublet, courtly gown, surgeon\u8217's gown, robes, vestments\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chopines, poulaines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hair ribbons, masque, clerical skullcap\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloth cape, fur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole, tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Interaction Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Magicks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craftsman\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Robes, smock, vestments\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan\u8217's beret, hair ribbons\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fur cape, liturgical stole\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Magicks Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Medicine\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craftsman\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Surgeon\u8217's gown\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plague mask\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Medicine Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Military\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soldier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Casaque\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military boots, poutaines\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain, gearspring goggles, tricorne\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tabard\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Military Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Nature\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Farmer\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shift\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Military boots, sandals, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain, tricorne\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Nature Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Observation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtly gown, surgeon\u8217's gown, robes, vestments\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gearspring goggles, plague mask, clerical skullcap\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Observation Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Science\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Craftsman\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smock\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Artisan\u8217's beret, gearspring goggles, plague mask\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Science Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Streetwise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Articles that can take streetwise charms are a varied set, ranging from the peasant\u8217's cloth cape to the noble\u8217's ornate stole.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Category\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pertinent Articles of Clothing\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Arm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courtier\u8217's gloves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Torso\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bodice, doublet, shift\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Foot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sandals, buckled shoes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Head\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capotain, cavalier hat, masque, tricorne\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shoulder\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloth cape, cloak, ornate stole\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise Pertinence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Table: Neutral Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed} Neutral Colors\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Color\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Description\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Argent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Silver or white\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brun\u226?tre\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brown\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cendr\u233?e\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grey\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Black\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Verve Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed} Verve Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?\u160?| |\line Color | Description |\line \u8212-\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-- | \u8212-\u8212-\u8212-\u8212-\u8212- |\line Argent (only) | Silver or white |\line Azure | Blue |\line Gules | Red |\line Or | Yellow |\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Table: Affinity Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Affinity Colors\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Color\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Description\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Amaranth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magenta\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bleu-C\u233?leste\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sky blue\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brun\u226?tre (only)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brown\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carnation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pink\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cendr\u233?e (only)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grey\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vert\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Green\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Guile Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Guile Colors\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purpure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purple\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sable (only)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Black\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sanguine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dark red\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tenn\u233?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Orange\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Amaranth:} This is a violet-red color, close to a magenta. It is an Affinity color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Argent:} Argent is both the color white and the color silver. When used in combination, it\u8217's considered a neutral color; used by itself, it\u8217's a Verve color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Azure:} A medium shade of blue, azure is a Verve color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bleu-C\u233?leste:} The light blue shade of a clear sky, bleu-c\u233?leste is not as dark as azure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Brun\u226?tre:} Brown, or brun\u226?tre, is an Affinity color. If used in combination with another color, it\u8217's considered a neutral color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Carnation:} An Affinity color, carnation is a softer pink color, often a lighter shade of Amaranth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cendr\u233?e:} Named for the dark grey of cinders, cendr\u233?e is an Affinity color when used by itself, or a neutral color when used in combination with another color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Gules:} Gules, a medium shade of red, is a Verve color.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Or:} {\i Or} represents yellow or gold. It is a Verve color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Purpure:} This is a dark purple color and is a Guile color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sable:} Items that are entirely black are considered sable, a Guile color. If combined with another color, then the black becomes a neutral color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sanguine:} Dark red, the color of blood, is a Guile color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Tenn\u233?:} This is a dark shade of orange, and is a Guile color.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Vert:} The color of forest vegetation, vert is an Affinity color.\sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Color Name\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Description\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Attribute\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Amaranth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Violet red\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Argent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 White or silver\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve (or Neutral)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Azure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Blue\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brun\u226?tre\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dark brown\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile (or Neutral)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carnation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pink\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Celeste\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Light blue\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cendree\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gray\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile (or Neutral)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gules\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Red\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Murrey\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Burgundy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Or\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gold or yellow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purpure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purple\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sable\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Black\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile (or Neutral)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sanguine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dark red\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Guile\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tenn\u233?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Orange or tan\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vert\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Green\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affinity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Charmweaving Colors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Living Expenses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters are assumed to have their housing and daily nutritional needs met by their Social Rank scores without having to make Wealth rolls or spend Rewards for normal daily living. Only unusual expenses, such as a night on the town or an inn stay in a distant city, need to be paid for separately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The costs below are fairly standardized across France, although it\u8217's only the larger towns and cities that have the best food, inns, and alcohol. As a package, one night\u8217's stay for a character and her horse in an inn with an attached tavern will cost 4D0 for the cheapest room and food, 3D6+1D0 for good quality, and 3D8+1D0 for the most exquisite food, drink, and suite.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters who go carousing and buy rounds on the house can use the price of the most expensive alcohol bought as an Item die on their Streetwise (Carouse) rolls.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Service Requested\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drinks for one night, good\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drinks for one night, private reserve\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drinks for one night, watered down\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one night, cheap\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one night, good\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one night, sumptuous\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one week, cheap\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one week, good\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lodging for one week, sumptuous\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meals for one day, bland\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meals for one day, good\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meals for one day, gourmet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Round on the house, good\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Round on the house, private reserve\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Round on the house, watered down\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stabling for one night\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stabling for one week\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Living Expenses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drinks, good:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drinks, private reserve:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drinks, watered down:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lodging, cheap:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lodging, good:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Lodging, sumptuous:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Meals, bland:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Meals, good:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Meals, gourmet:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Round on the house:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Stabling:} {\i description needed}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Miscellaneous Gear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Transportation and Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Vehicle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Walk Speed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Run Speed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Overland Speed\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Airship\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Carriage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cart\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gondola\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Narrowboat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 River Barge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rowboat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sailing Ship\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Velocipede\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wagon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 miles per hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Airship:} {\i description needed} Actual speed will vary depending on wind and weather conditions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Carriage:} {\i description needed} Carriage and wagon speed is limited by the speed of the horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cart}: {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Gondola:} {\i description needed} river\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Narrowboat:} {\i description needed} river\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b River Barge:} {\i description needed} river\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rowboat:} {\i description needed} river\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Sailing Ship:} {\i descripton needed} Actual speed will vary depending on wind and weather conditions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Velocipede:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wagon:} {\i description needed} Carriage and wagon speed is limited by the speed of the horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Mounts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mount\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Walk Speed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Run Speed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Overland Speed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Item Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Draft Horse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Area\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Husbandry +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Riding Horse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalry +1D6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx2880\cellx4320\cellx5760\cellx7200\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Warhorse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Areas\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 leagues per hour\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cavalry +1D10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mounts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Draft Horse:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Riding Horse:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Warhorse:} {\i description needed}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Horse Accessories\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Pets and Farm Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Domesticated:} {\i description needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Animal\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cost\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Example(s)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Beast of burden\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ox, mule\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bird, messenger\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Homing pidgeon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bird, song\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Canary, dove\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cat, common\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Housecat, alley cat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cat, purebred\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dog, companion\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dog, guard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dog, herding\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dog, hunting\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dog, mongrel\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Small, ordinary mutt\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fowl, barnyard\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chicken, goose\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Livestock, dairy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cow, goat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Livestock, meat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pig, sheep\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Livestock, wool\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sheep, goat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Raptor, trained\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Falcon\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Raptor, untrained\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Owl, crow\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reptile, small\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Snake, box turtle\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rodent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mouse, rat\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rabbit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bunny, hare\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Pets and Farm Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Beast of Burden (domesticated):} These are strong animals used for pulling plows, pulling wagons, and other farming chores. They have an Item Die of Husbandry +1D6 when used for this purpose.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bird, Messenger (domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bird, Song:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cat, Common:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Cat, Purebred:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dog, Companion (Domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dog, Guard (Domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dog, Herding (Domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dog, Mongrel (Domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fowl, Barnyard:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Livestock, Dairy:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Livestock, Meat:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Livestock, Wool:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Raptor, Trained (Domesticated):} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Raptor, Untrained:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Reptile:} {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rodents and Rabbits:} {\i description needed}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Additional Rules\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Combat is initiated when either party wants to begin a physical conflict.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Actions Before Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before combat actually begins, depending on the circumstances, a character may able to take certain actions to gain benefits in the upcoming fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These actions can include drawing weapons, drinking alchemical draughts, shouting for help, and so on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The only dice actions a character can take are those which will give the character Advantage in the combat \u8211- such as a Prowl roll or a Strategy roll. All Success Points from such rolls can only be spent on Advantage, and only one roll of a given type can be made. Success Points from these rolls cannot be spent on gaining Style Points. (See later in this chapter for more about Advantage.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Surprise\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Gamemaster can decide that one side is surprised or otherwise unprepared for a fight. An Observation roll can be used for this purpose, or the Gamemaster can simply rule based on the narrative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If a character is surprised, she is unable to take any preparatory actions before the fight, so cannot gain Advantage or prepare weapons before the fight. In addition, she gains a Drop 1 penalty on Initiative rolls (see below).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Rolling Initiative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At the start of combat, all combatants make an Initiative roll to determine the order in which each one will act. There are three Specialties under the Initiative skill, and the player (or Gamemaster, for NPCs) can choose which one to use: Impulse, Vigilance, or Timing. This is a normal Skill roll, where the top two dice are added together for a total, and the lower of those two dice is the potential number of successes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Initiative rolls are automatic successes, which means that there are no opposition dice and the Success Points are counted as if the roll had succeeded. Success Points from an Initiative roll are called Initiative Points and can be spent during the course of the combat as described below.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once all combatants have made an Initiative roll, the Gamemaster orders the results based first on the total roll, and the number of successes to break ties. If two characters roll the same total and number of successes, then roll off using 1D10 until the tie is broken.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When each character\u8217's turn comes up in the Initiative order, she can take one action, and then the turn passes to the next player in order. When all characters have taken a turn, the round ends and starts again with the first player in Initiative order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If a new combatant enters a fight already in progress, she rolls Initiative and is added into the Initiative order at the appropriate place in the next round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Identical NPCs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When Rabble or Stock Characters are used in quantities of more than two, the Gamemaster can group them together with one Initiative roll. All combatants in the group will take their actions at the same place in the Initiative sequence. Any Initiative Points spent apply to only one of such grouped characters at a given time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Spending Initiative Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are three ways to use Initiative Points during the course of a combat scene:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Seize the Initiative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Interpose\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Reprise Attack\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each has a cost that varies depending on the Specialty used for the Initiative roll \u8211- for example, if a character used Impulse, it would cost her one Initiative Point to Seize the Initiative, two points to Interpose, and three points to Reprise Attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seize the Initiative:} For one round, the character jumps ahead in the Initiative order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, the character acts at her normal place in the Initiative order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Interpose:} For one attack, the character makes herself the target of someone else\u8217's attack, instead of the attacker\u8217's intended target. This can be used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent\u8217's movement but does not redirect the attack. A character can Interpose only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reprise Attack:} If the character failed on an attack roll, she can repeat the attack. This can\u8217't be used after a successful attack. A character can Reprise Attack only once per round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Areas and Positioning\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Positioning and movement are represented by Areas; each Area is a distinct location where characters might find themselves, as determined by the Gamemaster.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before a fight breaks out, the Gamemaster should define these Areas and the interrelations between them. For example, if one Area is a dock, another Area might be the deck of a ship. The Gamemaster could say that travel is possible from the dock to the deck by both the gangplank and the ropes tying the ship to the dock.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Areas are usually represented by 3x5 index cards or by drawing rectangles on a piece of paper. Tokens, miniatures, or other small objects can be used to represent the locations of each combatant, and moved from Area to Area as the combat progresses.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An example of the Areas for a complex fight is shown above as it may be laid out with 3x5 cards; in addition, lines are given to show the usual ways in which a character could move from one Area to another.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What if a character in the Crow\u8217's Nest wants to dive off into the water, or land on the docks? The Gamemaster can judge these exceptions on a case-by-case basis, generally erring on the side of allowing characters to move around relatively freely.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 But what if someone wants to enter the captain\u8217's quarters? That room isn\u8217't shown in the original setup \u8211- but if it makes sense to exist, based on the fictional circumstances of the game, the Gamemaster can add an additional rectangle or index card to represent this new Area on the fly, and point out how it can be entered or left.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The primary way to move between Areas is by using the Move action, either by itself in a turn or as a combined action (see below for details).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Actions in Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each time a combatant\u8217's turn comes up in the Initiative order, she can take up to one action. An action involves making an opposed dice roll of some kind, such as an attack or using a skill, or making another action that affects the shared fictional world such as moving.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The list of actions that can be taken includes:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attack a Foe\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Assist a Friend\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Flourish to Gain Style\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Focus to Reroll Initiative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Movement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Prepare an Action\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Reload your Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Use a Skill\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Minor actions are possible, such as drawing a weapon, mounting a horse, or opening a door. Most of those can simply be done as a combined action (see below), although you could also do that on your turn as your entire turn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Combined Actions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many actions can be combined together with other actions. These actions don\u8217't require a dice roll, but instead impose a Drop Penalty on the primary action\u8217's roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if you wish to draw your weapon, you could take an action to do that. Or you could combine drawing the weapon with making an attack with it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Draw a weapon\u8221" is a Drop 1 combined action. This means you\u8217'd take a Drop 1 penalty on whatever roll you choose to make that turn as your action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalties for combined actions are cumulative; if you move to an adjacent area (another Drop 1 penalty) along with drawing your weapon, you now have a Drop 2 penalty on your attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A partial list of combined actions is shown below:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drop 0:} Drop Weapon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drop 1:} Move, Stand Up, Dismount, Draw Weapon, Sheathe Weapon, Switch Hands, Imbibe Draught, Arm Grenade\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drop 2:} Run, Retrieve Weapon, Improvise Weapon, Mount Horse, Reload (Pistol), Reload (Crossbow)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Drop 3:} Reload (Musket)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If a desired combined action isn\u8217't listed, the Gamemaster can assign an appropriate Drop Penalty based on the examples listed above.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can never combine two or more actions that require a dice roll, such as two attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you choose to not take an action that requires a dice roll, you can instead take multiple combined actions, up to a total of Drop 4. For example, reloading a pistol (Drop 2), dismounting (Drop 1), and moving (Drop 1). You wouldn\u8217't be able to also drink a draught in the same turn, because that would impose a Drop 5 penalty. (This limit only applies to Drop Penalties resulting from combined actions, and not from Wounds.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 List of Actions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following actions require the use of your action during a turn, although some can be used as combined actions where noted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Attack\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character makes an attack against a target, using a Dueling skill (Lunge or Feint) or a Military Skill (Aim or Brawl). Your character must be within range of the target, or in the same Area for Dueling and Brawl attacks, although you could use a combined Move action to get closer to the target.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character\u8217's target then gets to choose a specific Defense skill to use to react to the attack, and an opposed roll is made. The winner of the opposed roll gets to spend her Success Points as appropriate for the skill she used.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Assist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can assist another character by taking an Assist action. This grants the other character bonus dice on their next roll equal to one of the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Your character\u8217's Specialty dice, if she has ranks in the Specialty she is going to use.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Your character\u8217's Competency Die if she doesn\u8217't have ranks in the Specialty but is competent in that skill\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1D6\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A character can only receive the benefit from an Assist from two other characters. If the benefit is not used by the end of the current round, the benefit is lost.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b As a Combined Action:} You can\u8217't combine an Assist with other actions that require a dice roll, but you can use it with combined actions. Assist counts as a Drop 2 penalty when comparing against the maximum amount of Drop from combined actions (Drop 4).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You want to assist another player in attacking an opponent with Feint. Your character has 2 ranks in Feint, D8 for Guile, and a D8 Competency Die. You can give one of the following bonuses by assisting her:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2D8 for the Feint specialty dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1D8 for the Competency Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1D6 as a default\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Obviously in this case, you would choose the 2D8.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Flourish\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Flourish is an attempt to show off your character\u8217's talents in a way that is impressive \u8211- and which nets you Style Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To execute a Flourish, choose one specialty and describe how your character is using it stylishly, as with gaining a Skill Point. Then make a skill roll against Easy (3D6) opposition. If you are successful, you can only spend your Success Points on gaining Style Points, up to a maximum (as always) of three.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You have no Style Points and make a Flourish based on your character\u8217's Dodge specialty. You roll a 14 with seven Success Points against an opposition roll of 9, succeeding in the roll. You can only spend your Success Points on gaining Style Points (at a cost of three Success Points each Style Point) and describe your character leaping onto a chair, a table, and then a barrel, looking quite dashing as she does.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Focus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Focus is a re-centering of your character\u8217's attention, and allows you to reroll an Initiative roll with no opposition roll. You gain the following benefits from using Focus:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You can change your character\u8217's position in the Initiative order to the new value you\u8217've rolled, or stay at your original position, whichever is better for you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You can increase your current number of Initiative Points by the number that you rolled.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} At the start of the combat, you rolled a total of 5 with one Success Point on your Initiative roll. On the first turn, you decide to Focus and you get a better roll \u8211- a total of 11 with four Success Points (Initiative Points); you change your position in the Initiative order to 11, and add your one Initiative Point to the four you\u8217've just rolled, for a total five.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You later spend all five of those Initiative Points and in a subsequent turn, Focus again, getting a total of 9 with three Success Points; your position in the Initiative order doesn\u8217't change, but you do gain three more Initiative Points to spend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Move or Run\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Movement allows you to change your position from one Area to another Area. A normal Move action takes you to an adjacent Area, while a Run action lets you move through to an Area two away from your starting position.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b As a Combined Action:} A Move is a Drop 1 penalty, and a Run is a Drop 2 penalty. The most that you can Move in one turn is two Areas, so you can\u8217't do both a Run and a Move at the same time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Prepare\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use a Prepare action to set up an action to occur after a specific event happens later in the round. You declare what action your character will take and what will trigger that action. (You can choose not to act when the trigger comes up, if circumstances have changed.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the end of the round comes and you have not taken the action because the trigger event hasn\u8217't happened, then you can either choose to take the action at the end of the turn, or forfeit your character\u8217's action for that turn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you take any combined actions at the same time as your Prepare action, you apply the Drop Penalty when you take the prepared action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Your character gets ready to rush into a room after a friend opens it, drawing her weapon (Drop 1) in the same turn that you declare your Prepare action. Your trigger is \u8220"when the door opens\u8221" and your character\u8217's action will be to move into the room (Drop 1) and attack someone there. This will have a total Drop 2 penalty due to the combined actions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Later you prepare an attack with your sword to trigger \u8220"after my friend disarms our opponent.\u8221" This has no extra Drop penalty, since you aren\u8217't moving and your sword is already out. If your opponent doesn\u8217't become disarmed by the end of the round, you can either go ahead and make your attack, or wait until next round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Reload\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Reload action lets your character reload one of her firearms. (You don\u8217't have to reload a bow, but you do have to reload a crossbow.) Most weapons can be reloaded in one round, but it takes a total of 5 uses of Reload to reload a cannon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b As a Combined Action:} Reloading a pistol or a crossbow is a Drop 2 penalty. Reloading a musket is a Drop 3 penalty. You can reload two pistols in one round, since that would be a Drop 4 penalty total, and Drop 4 is the limit of combined actions you can take in one round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Use a Skill\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a catch-all category for using a Specialty or Skill in a way which isn\u8217't an attack, either using the Specialty\u8217's own Success Tables or the generic table for Non-Combat Actions in Combat. (See the start of the Skills document in the playtest packet.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You decide to use the Deceive specialty to distract your character\u8217's opponent in a fight: \u8220"Hey, look, the cardinal\u8217's cavaliers are behind you!\u8221" Normally, Deceive takes one minute to use and doesn\u8217't have a direct combat application, so instead you use the Success Table for Non-Combat Actions. With your Success Points, you buy increases in Advantage to represent your successful bluff.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Advantage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Advantage is an abstraction of how well your character is doing in a fight, expressed as a die value from D6 to D12. Advantage represents a wide variety of in-fiction states, including your character\u8217's relative positioning in an Area, her general sense of how the fight is going, her superior stance to her opponent, and even whether or not she is feeling the rhythm of the fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Increasing Advantage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You begin every combat with no Advantage Die and can increase your Advantage by spending Success Points, depending upon the Success Table for an action you\u8217've completed. The first time you buy an increase in Advantage, your Advantage Die goes up to D6; then D8, D10, and D12 with subsequent (or simultaneous) expenditures of Success Points on increasing Advantage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You decide you want your character to make a Feint attack against her opponent, and you succeed with three Success Points. It\u8217's the start of the fight, so you have no Advantage to begin with, but the Increase Advantage option on the Feint success table lets you spend one Success Point for each increase of Advantage. The first point gives you a D6 Advantage Die, then the following two increase that die size to D10, spending all three of your Success Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Using Advantage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can include your Advantage die on any attack or defense roll that you make during combat. Each time you use your Advantage Die, it steps down one size \u8211- from D10 to D8, for example, or from D6 to no Advantage Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You make a Lunge attack and elect to include your Advantage Die, which currently stands at a D10. You add a D10 to your dice pool for the attack, and after resolving the Lunge roll, your Advantage Die drops to a D8.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Other Combat Modifiers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Drop penalties can be applied during a fight based on the fictional circumstances \u8211- for example, if you are on the pitching and rolling deck of a ship, the Gamemaster can impose a Drop 1 penalty on physical skill checks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If an area provides cover from attacks, that imposes a Drop 1 or Drop 2 penalty on attacks that fire into that area.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are two types of damage: {\b Yield}, which is non-lethal, and {\b Wounds}, which bring a character closer to death while imposing penalties on combat-related actions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Yield\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Yield is an abstraction representing a character\u8217's energy, enthusiasm for battle, fatigue level, and will to fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each character has a Yield Limit that represents how many points of Yield she can take until being out of a combat. An NPC who reaches her Yield Limit will either surrender or be knocked unconscious, at the option of the Gamemaster. A PC who reaches her Yield Limit can stay in the fight, but if she does, every attack against her gains the following addition to its Success Table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Yielded Out)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Inflict 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inflict 1 Wound:} Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one to five for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This even applies to attacks such as Feint or Brawl which can not normally inflict Wounds. (See the next section for information on Wounds.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At the end of a combat, after the combatants have a chance to catch their breath, all Yield taken is reset to zero \u8211- although the effects of reaching a Yield Limit such as surrender or unconsciousness will continue (although not the Success Table addition for continuing to fight past your Yield Limit). Unconscious characters will remain unconscious for one or more scenes at the Gamemaster\u8217's discretion, unless awoken by others during or after the combat.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} You hit with a Lunge attack, with five Success Points. You decide to spend all five points on Yield, inflicting five Yield on your opponent. Your opponent has a Yield Limit of four, which means that the Gamemaster decides you knock her back against a wall and she hits her head, going unconscious and is out of the fight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Wounds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Wound represents a more serious injury than gaining Yield: Wounds don\u8217't heal at the end of the combat, and they inflict Drop Penalties on characters suffering from them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each player character can take four Wounds until being forced out of the combat, dying. NPCs can take anywhere from one wound (for Rabble) to five wounds (for Major Characters) \u8211- see the Opponents document in the playtest packet for more information.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, whenever a character takes a Wound, her Yield Limit decreases by one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Drop Penalties and Yield Limit changes for each Wound level are shown on the following table:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wounds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yield Limit\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 None\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8211-\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drop 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dying (for Wound Limit 4)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dying (for Wound Limit 5)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dying (for Wound Limit 6)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalty from Wounds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Drop Penalties from Wounds are cumulative with Drop Penalties for combined actions, and apply to the following skills and specialties:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Defense (all Specialties)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dueling (all Specialties)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Military (Brawl, Aim)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Your character is stabbed by an opponent\u8217's Lunge attack and receives one Wound. You now get a Drop 1 penalty on all applicable actions, such as attacking or defending. Later in the fight, you are shot for two more Wounds, which increases your penalty to Drop 4 \u8211- one more Wound and you\u8217'll be Dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dying and Death\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A Dying character is unconscious for the rest of the combat and cannot take actions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At the end of the combat, any Dying non-player character dies unless the player characters make a successful attempt (using the Medicine skill) to save that NPC \u8211- although the Gamemaster can rule that certain NPCs are beyond saving due to the extent of their injuries.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If a player character is Dying at combat\u8217's end, that character\u8217's player can decide to have the character expire \u8211- possibly after awakening long enough to speak some last words to a companion \u8211- or receive treatment through the Medicine skill to keep that character alive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the Medicine skill is unsuccessful or the wounds are untreated, the player can make a Survival Roll using her character\u8217's Verve plus her Competency Die against Moderate Opposition (3D8).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Survival Roll\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pool:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Verve + Competency Die\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Opposition:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Standard Opposition \u8211- Moderate (3D8)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Survive for 8 Hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Regain Consciousness\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ++++:\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heal 1 Wound\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Survive for 8 Hours:} The dying character doesn\u8217't die of her wounds for another eight hours per Success Point spent. Make another Survival Roll at the end of that time period.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Regain Consciousness:} The dying character is awake and can speak and react to the world around her, but can\u8217't take any actions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Heal 1 Wound:} The dying character heals one wound and is no longer dying.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 On a failed Survival Roll, the character dies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Example:} Your character receives a fourth Wound, taking her out of the fight. At the end of the fight, you can decide if she dies of her injuries, or fights to survive. If you choose the latter, and there\u8217's no medical aid nearby, you\u8217'll need to make a Survival Roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Healing Wounds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unlike Yield, Wounds don\u8217't simply go away at the end of a combat. There are two ways to heal Wounds: the Medicine skill, and bed rest.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Resting for two days will heal one Wound. Six days\u8217' bed rest is enough to fully heal all Wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Organization Traits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Scope\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Type\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Leadership\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Goals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Reputation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Ideals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Prestige\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Resources\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Secrets\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Assets\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Alliances\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Command\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Intrigue\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Authority\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Holdings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Mysteries\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Popularity\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Revenue\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Technology\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 GXP & Advancement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i explanation needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scope\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 GXP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Asset Maximum\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Immediate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Local\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 25\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Provincial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 75\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 National\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 150\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 International\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 250\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Group XP for Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Advancement\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 GXP Cost\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Asset to +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 GXP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Asset from +1 to +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 GXP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Asset from +2 to +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 GXP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Asset from +3 to +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 GXP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Increase Asset from +4 to +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 25 GXP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Organization Advancements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Sample Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Small Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Naval Airship Crew\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leadership:} Captain and first mate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Country D12, Loyalty D10, Justice D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D8, Resources D10, Secrets D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Authority +1, Command +1, Holdings +1, Technology +1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Mercenary Unit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leadership:} Commander and lieutenant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Loyalty D12, Wealth D10, Friends D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D8, Resources D10, Secrets D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Command +2, Holdings +1, Resources +1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Privateer Ship Crew\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leadership:} Captain and first mate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth D12, Loyalty D10, Pride D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D10, Secrets D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Command +1, Holdings +1, Revenue +2, Intrigue +1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Scientific Expedition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leader:} Head researcher\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Knowledge D12, Artistry D10, Wealth D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Command +1, Holdings +1, Technology +2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Small Merchant House\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leadership:} Co-owners\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Family D12, Wealth D10, Artistry D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D10, Secrets D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Holdings +2, Revenue +2, Intrigue +1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 Witch\u8217's Coven\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i description needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} D0 (Immediate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Leadership:} Coven leader\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Faith D12, Knowledge D10, Loyalty D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Assets:} Holdings +1, Revenue +1, Intrigue +1, Mysteries +2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Local Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i example(s) needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Provincial Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i example(s) needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 National Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i example(s) needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 International Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i introduction needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i example(s) needed}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Opponents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Types of Opponents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are several types of opponents that can present challenges, both in combat and out of combat, for player characters. These opponents are rated in terms of how important they are to the story: rabble are at best extras, while minor opponents take supporting roles. Major opponents, of course, can challenge a group of player characters as major villains or powerful allies!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs16 For the MJ: Using Opponents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Don\u8217't assume that all opponents are there to fight! A corrupt noble, scheming artisan, angry soldier, or even hapless rabble could complicate the heroes\u8217' lives without even lifting a finger.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Use opposed rolls, such as a duplicitous politician\u8217's Deception vs.\u160?a player\u8217's Negotation, to represent a duel of words \u8211- trying to to convince a court of one\u8217's guilt or innocence.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Don\u8217't make rolls against Standard Opposition for opponents, though \u8211- you shouldn\u8217't ever be rolling against yourself! Either find a way for the player to oppose the roll, or just decide via fiat whether the opponent succeeds or not.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Similarly, if an opponent is actually friendly and wishes to help the player characters, use the rule for assisting to have them grant additional dice to the players\u8217' rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Rabble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Usually appearing in groups, rabble are faceless opposition who don\u8217't present a major challenge to the player characters. Rabble have the following characteristics:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab D0 or D6 Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wealth pool based on 1 Social Rank die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Yield Limit of 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wound Limit of 1 (after taking 1 wound, they are Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attributes of D6/D6/D6, D8/D8/D8, or D6/D8/D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Maximum of +1 Specialty Ranks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Two Passions (D8, D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab No Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Start with 0 Style Points, with a maximum of 1 Style Point\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Usually appear in groups (up to twice the number of PCs)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Stock Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A stock character is one that has a tangible role in the game but probably doesn\u8217't need a name; instead, they are identified by their profession or story role. Characteristics of stock characters include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Competency die usually D6 (D8 or higher for elite characters)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wealth pool based on 1 Social Rank die plus Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Yield Limit equal to 3 plus half the maximum value of their Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wound Limit of 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attributes of D8/D8/D8 or D6/D8/D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Maximum of +2 Specialty Ranks in three Specialties (or higher for elite characters)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Three Passions (D10, D8, D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab One or Two Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Start with 0 Style Points, with a maximum of 1 Style Point\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Sometimes appear in groups (one per PC), or sometimes lead groups of rabble\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Minor Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A minor character usually has a name, and has more of a background (and usually more skills) than a stock character or rabble. Minor characters have the following characteristics:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Competency die usually D6 or D8 (D10 or higher for elite characters)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wealth pool based on 2 Social Rank dice plus Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Yield Limit equal to 3 plus the maximum value of their Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wound Limit of 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attributes of D6/D8/D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Maximum of +2 Specialty Ranks in three Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Three Passions (D10, D8, D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Two Style Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Start with 1 Style Point, with a maximum of 3 Style Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Usually appear singly although often found in groups of minor characters or stock characters as leaders, or as henchpersons of major characters\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Major Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Major characters always have names, and play a key role as opponents (or allies) for the player characters. All should have complex motivations and are built as player characters are built, with just a few exceptions. Characteristics of major characters include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Competency die of D8 or higher, and corresponding experience points spent\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wealth pool based on 2 Social Rank dice plus Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Yield limit equal to 6 plus the maximum value of their Competency die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wound limit of 5 (Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attributes of D6/D8/D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Maximum of +3 Specialty Ranks (higher for elite characters); built as per player characters with experience points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Four Passions (D12, D10, D8, D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Three Style Maneuvers, plus additional if bought with experience points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Start with 3 Style Points, with a maximum of 6 Style Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Are unique individuals in the world\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Have full character sheets as do player characters\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Customizing Opponents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can adjust opponents to represent other types of characters in the world; for example, a Pirate Crewmember could be used as the basis for an Italian Sailor by changing her Passions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some of the ways you can customize the opponents listed in this chapter include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Increasing the size of the Competency die (from D6 to D8, for example)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Adding or removing specialty ranks (up to the maximum value)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Changing equipment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Upping the Yield Limit or Wound Limit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Altering the character\u8217's Passions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Adding, removing, or changing a Style Maneuver\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Adding, removing, or changing a Language\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Rabble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following characters could be used as opponents for typical starting player characters (D6 or D8 Competency dice), or can be used as allies, rivals, assistants, or supporting characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Angry Mob Member\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These rabble can represent any mob that gathers for some specific purpose.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D6, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D6), Block (1D6), Dodge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D6), Aim (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Carouse +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Club (D6) or Knife (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Country (D8), Justice (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Bedraggled Urchin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Peasant children found on the street may be legitimately hungry, or they might just be looking to score a handout from kind-hearted rubes visiting from out of town.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D6), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +1 (2D8), Deceive +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Prowl +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Intuition +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2d8), Larceny +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Club (D6) or Dagger (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D8), Friends (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Bloodthirsty Buccaneer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While these can be used to represent nearly any adequately trained sailor, they are most commonly encountered as part of a pirate ship\u8217's crew, climbing the rigging or swinging on ropes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D8), Riposte +1 (3D8), Feint +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8), Aim +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2d8), Larceny +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Cutlass (D8), Pistol x2 (D6), Corsair Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 City Watch Grunt\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The lowest ranks of the city watch are assigned to patrol the streets, usually at night. They\u8217're competent enough to keep random citizens from committing crimes, but aren\u8217't really a match for a well-trained duelist.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigiliance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +1 (3D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (1D10+2D8+1D6, pike; 3D8+1D6, sword), Riposte (2D10+1D8+D6, sword), Feint (1D8+2D6, sword)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +1 (3D10+1D6, musket)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perceive +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Pike (D10), Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Loyalty (D8), Justice (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Desperate Convict\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many criminals face long sentences or even death, and are thus desperate to find any way to escape such a fate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8), Feint +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Deceive +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Larceny +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Crude Shiv (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D8), Family (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Drunken Brawler\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a bar fight breaks out, these besotted fools are often in the thick of it, usually fighting for no particular reason than just because there\u8217's a fight to be had. Those who are particularly intoxicated take a Drop 1 penalty on all rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D10, Affinity D8, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D10+1D6), Block (1D8), Dodge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (2D10+1D6), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D10), Aim (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D10), Carouse +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Improvised weapon (chair, bottle, fork) (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Friends (D8), Lust (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Acadian Colonist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Settlers in the fur-trading colony of Acadian are rough-and-tumble, fiercely indepenent sorts who tend to be suspicous of outsiders.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D6, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D6), Block +1 (2D6), Dodge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D6), Aim +1 (1D10+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (2D6), Husbandry +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D6), Carouse +1 (2D6), Larceny +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Quarterstaff (D6), Musket (D10), Commoner Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Friends (D8), Country (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Gossiping Courtier\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The various hangers-on of the French court \u8211- and other noble estates \u8211- love nothing better than a good rumor, especially a scandalous one. If one\u8217's pride is insulted, she may even draw steel \u8211- although usually those rapiers are just for decoration\u8217's sake.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D10 (Noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +1 (2D8), Etiquette +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (2D8), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Rapier (D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6), Courtly Outfit\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Greedy Bandit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Bandits have a tendency to plague the countryside, especially during times of strife or poverty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D8), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D8), Riposte (1D10+1D8), Feint (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8), Aim +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Husbandry +1 (2D10), Prowl +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Bow (D6), Leather Jerkin (D6), Horse, Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Infantry Recruit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The armies of France and neighboring countries are filled with soldiers from all walks of life.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D8), Block +1 (1D10+2D8), Dodge (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (1D10+2D8), Riposte (2D8), Feint (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (1D8), Aim +1 (1D10+2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perceive +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Pike (D10), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Country (D8), Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Laconic Farmer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a farmer. That\u8217'll do.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D6), Block (1D10), Dodge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Dueling):} Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D10+1D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Military):} Brawl (1D6), Aim (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Husbandry +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perceive +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Quarterstaff (D8), Musket (D10), Pig, Commoner Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Family (D8), Country (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Street Tough\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Criminal elements can be found lurking in the back alleys and side streets of any large city. These toughs aren\u8217't usually murderous, only trying to mug someone for their livres.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (2D8+1D6), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Larceny +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Knife (D6), Commoner Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D8), Friends (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Unemployed Thespian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rabble}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are vast numbers of less-than-successful thespians who eke out a meager living at menial jobs in-between auditions. Most of them carry around a sword just so they look the part, whatever part that may be.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +1 (2D10), Etiquette +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D10+1D8), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (1D10+1D8), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Rapier (D8), Swashbuckler Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Stock Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Stock characters might appear several times, but rarely get named. Consider upgrading any which see frequent use to minor character status.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Boorish Fop\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All bluster and fashion sense with little else to offer, fops can be found anywhere from the courts of the royal palace to the bars down by the docks. They can be easily angered if called out on their self-aggrandizing half-truths.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D10+1D6 (Noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6), Scholarship +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge +2 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (1D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +1 (2D10+1D6), Deceive +2 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (3D6), Aim (1D10+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (3D6), Carouse +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Pistol (D6), the latest fashion of Courtly Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Lust (D10), Pride (D8), Friends (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Drunken Stagger (spend 1 to add Carouse to Lunge)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Brash Fencer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many young bravos come to the big city hoping to make names for themselves, and attempt to do so by challenging multiple people to duels. (Sometimes they accidentally schedule three for the same time and place; time management is not their forte.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Block (1D8+2D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Riposte +2 (4D8+1D6), Feint +1 (1D8+3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D10+1D6), Aim +1 (2D8+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Husbandry +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +2 (3D10+1D6), Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Pistol (D6), Buckler (D8), Draft Horse, Swashbuckler Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Pride (D10), Artistry (D8), Family (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Precise Swordplay (spend 2 to maximize Sword Weapon Die)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Cavalry Officer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Officers in the cavalry are usually chosen from among the lower nobility, and are often groomed to be the next generals of the armies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D10, Affinity D8, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D10+1D6 (Noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Etiquette +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Block +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Dodge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +2 (3D10+1D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Husbandry +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (1D10+1D6), Aim +1 (2D8+2D6), Strategy +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Pistol (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Warhorse, Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Country (D10), Pride (D8), Family (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Mounted Combatant (when charging while mounted, spend 1 to add Husbandry to Lunge), Protective Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Defense)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 City Watch Officer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The more experienced members of the watch are promoted to officer ranks and have more training. An officer could be found as the head of a group of grunts, or working with a squad of other officers against more experienced player characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +1 (3D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +2 (4D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perceive +1 (2D8+1D6), Deduce +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D6), Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Loyalty (D10), Justice (D8), Country (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Practiced Sharpshooting (spend 2 to maximize Aim), Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Dangerous Revolutionary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Not everyone in France owes allegiance to the crown. This revolutionary can represent any conspirator who is plotting against the country.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (3D8+1D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8+1D6), Feint +2 (4D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +1 (1D10+2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Blackpowder +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Leather Jerkin (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Loyalty (D10), Pride (D8), Justice (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Cunning Misdirection (spend 2 to maximize Feint)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Devious Smuggler\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Smugglers and other criminals can be found at the edges of civilized society, trading in information as much as they do their contraband goods. This is a typical smuggler who might be encountered in Gallinea or abroad.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D6+1D0 (Commoner)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (3D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +2(3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (3D6), Riposte +1 (2D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Aim +2 (2D8+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Intuition +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (3D6), Prowl +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6), Larceny +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Pistol (D6), Daggers x3 (D6), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth (D10), Friends (D8), Pride (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Cunning Camouflage (spend 2 to maximize Prowl)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Fastidious Physicker\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This doctor may not have much when it comes to bedside manner, but she\u8217's a brilliant surgeon and diagnostician, despite her addiction issues and her limp. Player characters can seek out a doctor like this if they are in need of healing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile 8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Scholarship +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte (1D8+2D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Medicine:} Surgery +2 (3D8+2D6), Treat +2 (3D8+2D6), Poison +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Military):} Brawl (1D8), Aim (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perception +1 (2D8+1D6), Intuition +1 (2D8+1D6), Deduce +2 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Calculus +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Chirurgeon\u8217's Knives (D6), Medicine x8, Physician Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Artistry (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Reliable Physicking (spend 1 to reroll Medicine)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Gregarious Barkeep\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The barkeep is more than willing to lend an ear when you need one, and keep the drinks coming \u8211- but if trouble breaks out in her bar, she\u8217's ready to lay a beatdown on drunken customers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (2D8+2D6), Block +1 (2D10+2D6), Dodge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (2D8+2D6), Riposte (1D10+2D6), Feint (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +2 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +2 (3D8+1D6), Aim +1 (2D10+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perception +1 (2D8+1D6), Intuition +2 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8+1D6), Carouse +2 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Club (D6), Heavy Ale Stein (D6), Leather Apron (D6), Crafter Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Friends (D10), Artistry (D8), Pride (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Aggressive Fisticuffs (spend 2 to maximize Brawl)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Grizzled Veteran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are a number of former soldiers who live their lives as hired mercenaries, guardsmen, members of the militia, or drunken sots.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +2 (3D8+2D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (3D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +2 (3D8+1D6), Aim +2 (1D10+3D8+1D6), Strategy +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Leather Jerkin (D6), Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Loyalty(D10), Wealth (D8), Country (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Long-Suffering Tutor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Often found in the employ of nobles or rich merchants to teach their children, the tutor is an educated person whose skills aren\u8217't as practical as most. A few can train someone in the basics of swordplay.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Initiative):} Vigilance (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +2 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (1D8+3D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Deduce +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Calculus +2 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), books on a variety of subjects (four, D6 each), Courtly Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Knowledge (D10), Artistry (D8), Family (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} French and two others\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture), Cunning Erudition (spend 2 to maximize Scholarship)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Wary Shopkeep\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stock Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This merchant has dealt with shoplifters before \u8211- as well as arrogant player characters who think they can come into her shop and boss her around \u8211- and isn\u8217't in the mood for any funny business. Her business could be any of the kind found in Lutetia and surrounding areas.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (3D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Dueling):} Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D10+D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6), Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Intuition +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Knife (D6) or Club (D6), Crafter Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Artistry (D10), Wealth (D8), Family (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Minor Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You should name each minor character that figures into your game, although you don\u8217't need to have them directly introduce themselves to the player characters. You\u8217'll probably also want to choose their appearances and give them one or more personality quirks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Devout Priest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a typical priest, likely assigned to a nearby chapel or perhaps giving out aid to travellers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+1D6+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +2 (3D8+1D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +2 (4D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (2D8+2D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+2D6), Feint (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +2 (3D8+1D6), Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b (Military):} Brawl (1D8), Aim (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Magick:} Portents +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Intuition +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Quarterstaff (D6), Prayer Books x2 (D8), Priest Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Church(D10), Faith (D8), Family (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} French, Spanish, Latin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture), Books of Faith (when speaking to people of the same faith, spend 1 to add Scholarship to Inspire)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Dishonest Mechanician\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is an example of a mechanician who was accused of stealing plans from another inventor (which she did do) and then went underground to avoid censure from her peers. She can be used as a henchperson for a primary villain, or as an independent agent.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D8+1D6 (Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Scholarship +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D6), Block (1D10+2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (1D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (2D6), Aim +2 (2D8+3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Deduce +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Blackpowder +1 (3D6), Clockworks +2 (3D8+1D6), Calculus +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Larceny +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Clockwork Pistol (D6), Dagger (D6), Leather Jerkin (D6), Tools (D6), miscellaneous clockwork devices, Clockworker Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth(D10), Pride (D8), Artistry (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} French, Russian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Precise Mechanics (spend 2 to maximize Clockwork Weapon Die), Automatic Fire (when using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 to add Clockworks to Aim)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Modern Sergents-Majors G\u233?n\u233?raux\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 She is the very model of a sergeant-major general: she has information on vegetables, animals and minerals. She knows the kings of England and can quote historical battles. She\u8217's well acquainted, too, with mathematical matters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Her practical experience on the battlefield, however, may be very limited.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 She can make a great foil for cavaliers in a city-based adventure, or could be leading any military unit in the field.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D10+2D6 (Soldier, Noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +2 (3D8+1D6), Etiquette +2 (4D6), Scholarship +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block (1D10+2D6), Dodge (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (1D8+3D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (1D8+1D6), Aim +1 (1D10+3D6), Strategy +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Blackpowder +1 (2D8+1D6), Clockworks +1 (3D6), Calculus +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Cavalry Saber (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Guard Uniform\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Country (D10), Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Incoming Fire (when avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 to add Aim to Dodge), Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Petty Noble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a minor noblewoman (or nobleman) from somewhere in France; there are hundreds of such people in the nation. They all think they\u8217're uniquely special.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D10+1D6 (Noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (1D8+3D6), Block +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +1 (1D8+3D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +1 (2D8+1D6), Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl (2D6), Aim +1 (2D10+2D6), Strategy +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Fancy Rapier (D8), Buckler (D8), Pistol (D6), Courtly Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Family (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction), Manners Count (when speaking to someone of at least Artisan rank, spend 1 to add Etiquette to Negotate)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Privateer Captain\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These dread pirates sail the seas, plundering boats and leading crews of bloodthirsty buccaneers. Some actually have letters of marque and are thus authorized by a given country\u8217's government \u8211- as long as they don\u8217't start preying on the ships of that nation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 1D8+2D6 (Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Impulse +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +2 (3D10+2D8), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +2 (4D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +2 (3D10+2D8), Riposte +2 (2D8+3D6), Feint +2 (5D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +2 (3D10+1D8), Negotiate +1 (1D8+2D6), Deceive +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D10+1D8), Aim +2 (1D8+4D6), Strategy +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +2 (3D10+1D8), Prowl +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perceive +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Science:} Blackpowder +2 (3D10+1D8), Calculus +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +2 (3D10+1D8), Carouse +2 (1D8+3D6), Larceny +1 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Cutlass (D8), Dagger x2(D6), Brace of 4 Pistols (D6), Spyglass (D8), Sextant (D8), Swashbuckler Outfit, Sailing Ship or Airship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Pride(D10), Loyalty (D8), Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} French, Italian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Aggressive Fulmination (spend 2 to maximize Blackpowder), Into the Rigging (when on a ship, spend 1 to add Explore to Dodge)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Rogue Highwayman\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The rogue highwayman is encountered on the country roads of France, and makes a living by stealing from others at gunpoint. Often she\u8217's the leader of a group of greedy bandits.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D6+1D0 (Commoner, Soldier)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing (1D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block (3D6), Dodge +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte (1D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +2 (5D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (2D8+1D6), Husbandry +2 (4D6), Prowl +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Banter +1 (2D8+1D6), Carouse +1 (3D6), Larceny +2 (3D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Sword (D8), Dagger (D6), Pistol (D6), Mask, Horse, Swashbuckler Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Wealth(D10), Family (D8), Pride (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Cunning Camouflage (spend 2 to maximize Prowl), Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Secretive Soothsayer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A witch and fortune reader, the soothsayer makes her living by dispensing sage advice mixed with magickal readings of the portents. She affects an air of mystery and tries to appear older than she really is.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D8+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +2 (4D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D8+1D6), Block (2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (2D8+1D6), Riposte (3D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +2 (1D8+3D6), Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Magicks:} Brew +2 (1D8+3D6), Portents +2 (3D10+2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perception +2 (4D8), Deduce +2 (3D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Knife (D6), Divination Cards (D8), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Knowledge (D10), Family (D8), Love (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} French, Russian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Cunning Premonition (spend 2 to maximize Portents), Saw That Coming (when unarmed, spend 1 to add Portents to Dodge)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Secretive Soothsayer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Minor Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A witch and fortune reader, the soothsayer makes her living by dispensing sage advice mixed with magickal readings of the portents. She affects an air of mystery and tries to appear older than she really is.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth Pool:} 2D8+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Timing +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Arts +2 (4D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry (2D8+1D6), Block (2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge (2D8+1D6), Riposte (3D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Negotiate +2 (1D8+3D6), Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Magicks:} Brew +2 (1D8+3D6), Portents +2 (3D10+2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Perception +2 (4D8), Deduce +2 (3D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Equipment:} Knife (D6), Divination Cards (D8), Peasant Outfit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Knowledge (D10), Family (D8), Love (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} Gallinean, Talanian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Cunning Premonition (spend 2 to maximize Portents), Saw That Coming (when unarmed, spend 1 to add Portents to Dodge)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 1 (maximum 3)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Creating Major Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As key opponents, major characters should be created to serve specific roles in your game, such as a master villain, a major foil, a powerful ally, or a respected mentor. The recommended method is to build a major opponent in the same way that you\u8217'd create a player character, choosing two classes and so on, and then adding extra experience.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 But sometimes you don\u8217't have the time to do it that way, and you just need to create one simply. Here\u8217's how that works.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab First, come up with an idea of what this character is like, and what kind of role she\u8217'll play in the campaign.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Pick five specialties which she\u8217'll use the most; perhaps Lunge for a duelist or Inspire for a chaplain. These are her primary specialties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Choose another five specialties which are important, but not the focus of her activity. These are secondary specialties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Finally, pick another five tertiary specialties, which are things she can do, but aren\u8217't central to her character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Assign a D10, D8, and D6 to her attributes in a way that makes sense to you, based on her concept.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Choose how much of a challenge you want to present to your players; this will determine approximately how many experience points she\u8217'll have. Generally speaking, you\u8217'll want a major opponent to have about as many experience points as the sum of all your players, with a minimum of around 20 XP and a maximum around 200.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Consult the table, Opponent Creation, and choose one line representing how many experience points your major character will have.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab She will have the listed number of ranks in each of her primary, secondary, and tertiary specialties, as well as competency in the associated skills \u8211- plus Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and Interaction.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Assign prowess in two to four types of weapons, zero to two types of armor, and two to four languages, based on your concept.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Pick her social class rank, assign one or more outfits, and equip her with whatever weapons, armor, and other equipment makes the most sense.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Most major characters will have two to four pieces of charmwoven apparel, with a charm die equal to their competency die. These charm dice usually assigned to one of the primary specialties or one of the tertiary ones.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Choose four Passions, assigning them in order from D12 to D6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Pick three Style Maneuvers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Finally, if she has any additional XP as shown on the table, spend those on whatever else you think might be fun. Extra style maneuvers or specialty ranks in Initiative are always good choices!\sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1234\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2468\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3702\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4936\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6170\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7404\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 XP Spent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Competency Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maximum\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Primary\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Secondary\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tertiary\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Additional XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 35 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 50 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 70 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 90 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 100 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 125 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 150 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 175 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1234\cellx2468\cellx3702\cellx4936\cellx6170\cellx7404\cellx8638
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 225 XP\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20 XP\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Opponent Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Example of Major Character Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Let\u8217's say you\u8217've decided you\u8217're going to make a major character who is an important baroness; in additional to her political position, she\u8217's also an accomplished combatant, skilled with sword and pistol.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Looking over the list of specialties, we come up with the following primary specialties: Block, Parry, Riposte, Vigilance, and Aim. For secondary specialties, Lunge, Scholarship, Negotiate, Brawl, and Etiquette make sense. And as tertiary specialties, Intuition, Inspire, Strategy, Explore, and Carouse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 With a number of Affinity specialties, it makes sense for her to have a D10 for Affinity, with a D8 for Verve and a D6 for Guile.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The players in your game are pretty experienced; most have a D8 competency die and have spent around 25 XP each. With four players, that means that 100 XP is a good starting place for this major character\u8217's abilities. However, checking the chart above, that would place her at a D12 competency die; we don\u8217't want her to be too powerful, since she\u8217'll have backup in the form of her loyal guards, so we\u8217'll go with 80 XP instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This gives her a D10 Competency Die, +4 ranks in her primary specialties, +3 ranks in her secondary specialties, and +1 rank in her tertiary specialties. If she\u8217's going to use Riposte, which is one of her primary specialties, she has a +4 ranks. With Strategy, she only has +1 rank.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Filling in the rest of her stats, we arrive at:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Foreign Noblewoman\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Major Character}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Competency Die:} D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wealth:} 3D10 (noble)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 16\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 5 (Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Vigilance +4 (6D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Culture:} Etiquette +3 (5D10), Scholarship +3 (4D6+1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Defense:} Parry +4 (6D8+1D10), Block +4 (7D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Dueling:} Lunge +3 (5D8+1D10), Riposte +4 (6D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Interaction:} Inspire +1 (2D8+2D10), Negotiate +3 (6D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Military:} Brawl +3 (4D8+1D10), Aim +4 (6D10+1D6, pistol), Strategy +1 (2D6+1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Nature:} Explore +1 (3D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Observation:} Intuition +1 (3D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Streetwise:} Carouse +1 (3D10) {\b Equipment:} Rapier (1D8 sword), courtly outfit, courtier gloves (Inspire 1D10 charm), bodice (Block 1d10 charm), chopines (Negotiate 1D10 charm), \u8220"Murr\u8221" (purebred cat)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Passions:} Pride (D12), Country (D10), Family (D8), Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Languages:} German, French\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Maneuvers:} Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction), Aggressive Deflection (spend 2 to maximize Parry), Down \u8216'n\u8217' Dirty Fighting (when you have one hand free, spend 1 to add Brawl to Riposte)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Style Points:} 3 (maximum 6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This foreign noblewoman, is a patriot first and foremost \u8211- at least when her pride doesn\u8217't get in the way. Ambitious and thoughtful, she is a planner who involves herselves in a wide variety of schemes and plots. While most are practical nature, some are more personal and are aimed at avenging a perceived or actual sleight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 She will particularly try to humble any player character who dares to show her up in public, be that by turning down an offer employment, thwarting her plans, or simply knowing or achieving more than her.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Opponent Groups\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Certain types of opponents are usually encountered in mixed groups. Here are several that you can use or adapt when you need them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In the listings that follow, {\i P} means one of these for every player character in your group, and {\i P}/2 means one for every two player characters. Listed Ideals can be used once each per group, in addition to the Passions of each member; remember that Passions and Ideals can reflect either an inclination toward a value or against one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For more information using on scope, attributes, and assets, see the section on Organizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Bandit Gang\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Encountered primarily on the open road, these bandits are often, but not always, mounted on horses.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Greedy Bandits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 Grizzled Veterans\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Rogue Highwayman\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth (D8), Justice (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D0); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10;** Assets:** Command +1, Authority +1, Revenue +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 1D0 Reward (bounty) per Bandit, 1D6 Reward (bounty) per Veteran, 1D8 Reward (bounty) per Rogue Highwayman\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 City Watch Patrol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This can be any city watch or group of guards. Double their numbers if you want them to be more than an inconvenience for your players.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} City Watch Grunts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 City Watch Officer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Loyalty (D8), Country (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Local (D6); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D10, Resources D8, Secrets D6; {\b Assets:} Alliances +2, Command +1, Authority +2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Den of Thieves\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A loose assortment of ne\u8217'er-do-wells and cutthroats who would sell out their own grandmothers if there were profit in it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Street Toughs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Desperate Convicts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Devious Smugglers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Dishonest Mechanician\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth (D10), Justice (D8), Pride (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D0); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D10, Secrets D8; {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Intrigue +1, Holdings +1, Revenue +1, Technology +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 3D6 Barter Dice per Smuggler, 6 Clockwork Gears per Mechanician\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Military Unit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These will most commonly be soldiers in the local army. Sometimes they\u8217're encountered in a bar.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Infantry Recruits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Cavalry Officers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Grizzled Veteran (sergeant)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Modern Sergents-Majors G\u233?n\u233?raux\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Country (D8), Loyalty (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Provincial (D8); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D10, Resources D8, Secrets D6; {\b Assets:} Alliances +2, Command +2, Authority +2, Holdings +1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Moralistic Mob\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Using the pretext of righteous indignation, a mob of angry commoners has been stirred up and are looking for victims. And there\u8217's an immigrant couple straight ahead \u8211- carrying a small baby! Oh no!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2{\i P} Angry Mob Members\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Dangerous Revolutionary, Grizzled Veteran, Asrian Priestess, or Petty Noble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Church (D8), Justice (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D0); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10; {\b Assets:} Mysteries +1, Popularity +2\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Noble\u8217's Entourage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Traveling in style in one or more carriages, nobles may sometimes find themselves at the mercy of a bandit group \u8211- requiring the cavaliers to take sides.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Gossiping Courtiers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Grizzled Veterans\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 Boorish Fops\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Fastidious Physicker or Longsuffering Tutor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Petty Noble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Family (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Provincial (D8); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D8, Resources D10, Secrets D6; {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Intrigue +1, Holdings +2, Revenue +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 1D6 Reward (coins) per Veteran, 1D8 Reward (coins) per Fop, Courtier, Physicker, or Tutor, 1D10 Reward (coins) per Noble; or, 1D10 Reward (gratitude for rescue) per player character, delivered 2 days later\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Pirate Crew\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are the crew of a small sailing ship. For larger ships, add more Privateer Captains as officers, and create a major character as the captain.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Bloodthirsty Buccaneers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Privateer Captain\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D0);** Attributes:** Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10; {\b Assets:} Command +1, Intrigue +2, Holdings +1, Revenue +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 1D10 Reward (bounty) for Captain, 1D6 Stolen Cargo per Buccaneer\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Small Marketplace\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Throughout both large cities and tiny villages, small marketplaces are centers of commerce featuring goods for sale. These are the kinds of people usually found in a smaller marketplace; double or triple the number for larger bazaars.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Laconic Farmers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Bedraggled Urchins\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Wary Shopkeepers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 Lutetian Watch Grunts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 Street Toughs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Fastidious Physicker, Dishonest Mechanician, or Secretive Soothsayer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D0); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D8, Resources D10, Secrets D6; {\b Assets:} Holdings +1, Popularity +1, Revenue +2, Technology +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 2D6 Barter (goods) per Shopkeeper, 1D8 Reward (coins) per Physicker, Mechanician, or Soothsayer\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Smuggling Ring\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Operating in the shadows to avoid taxes or other legal entanglements, these secretive smugglers look to optimize profits.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Elissian Colonists\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Street Toughs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Devious Smugglers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Wary Shopkeepers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Local (D6); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10; {\b Assets:} Alliances +1, Intrigue +2, Revenue +2, Technology +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 1D6 Barter (contraband) per member of the smuggling ring\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Tavern Brawl\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Barroom fights break out quite often due to the presence of alcohol and surly people. Here are the typical opponents you might find in such a drunken melee.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Drunken Brawlers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Boorish Fops\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Grizzled Veterans\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Gossiping Courtier\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Brash Fencer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Gregarious Barkeep\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Pride (D8), Lust (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Immediate (D6); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D8, Resources D6, Secrets D10; {\b Assets:} Intrigue +1, Holdings +1, Popularity +2, Revenue +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 2D6 Reward (coins) per Barkeep, 6D6 Barter (alcohol) behind the bar\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Treasonous Conspiracy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Those who plot against the crown can be a very mixed lot of opponents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Angry Mob Members\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Street Thugs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P} Dangerous Revolutionaries\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i P}/2 Gossiping Courtiers or Boorish Fops\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 Petty Noble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ideals:} Justice (D8), Pride (D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Scope:} Local (D6); {\b Attributes:} Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets D10; {\b Attributes:} Alliances +1, Intrigue +2, Authority +1, Popularity +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rewards:} 1D6 Reward (bounty) per Revolutionary, Courtier, or Fop; 4D6 Rewards (coins) per Noble; 1D12 Reward (bounty) for list of conspirators\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Here\u8217's how animals work in the game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Animal Attributes and Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While humans have Verve, Affinity, and Guile as attributes, animals are defined by the attributes Instinct, Ferocity, and Training. These can range from D0 to D12, and aren\u8217't assigned as D10/D8/D6 as for human characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Animals don\u8217't have skills, but each specialty is grouped under an appropriate attribute. There is one specialty, Perceive, that is classified as any attribute, and the Initiative skill has three new Specialties that don\u8217't apply to humans.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Instinct\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Instinctive specialties are those related to the survival of the animal, such as self-preservation or locating food.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dodge:} This is used by most animals to avoid attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Explore:} The Explore specialty is used for tracking, finding shelter, locating edible plants, or finding water.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Feint:} An animal will use Feint primarily to distract, although there are some faster animals which use it for attack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flee (Initiative specialty):} For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can Walk to an unoccupied area, and for 2 Initiative Points, it can Run to an unoccupied area. None of the human options for Initiative are available, such as Interpose, Reprise, or Seize the Initiative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Perceive:} This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prowl:} Animals that sneak up on targets, or hide from predators, are using the Prowl specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Ferocity Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Ferocity attribute is a measure of an animal\u8217's aggression, determination, and fortitude. They\u8217're primarily used offensively.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Brawl:} Animals use the Brawl specialty to grab hold of things, knock them down, or pin them to the ground.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fight (Initiative specialty):} For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can Seize the Initiative and immediately make a Lunge attack. For 2 Initiative Points, it can Seize the Initiative and make a Brawl or Riposte attack. It can\u8217't use Initiative Points for any other purpose.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inspire:} Pack alphas often are able to Inspire bravery in their packmates, but most commonly this specialty is used to Inspire fear and scare off other creatures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lunge:} This is an aggressive attack using the natural weapons possessed by the animal, such as claws, sharp teeth, or horns. Those natural weapons add their Weapon die to Lunge attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Perceive:} This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Riposte:} Animals don\u8217't Parry attacks, but they might be able to Riposte on a good Dodge roll or by using Initiative Points.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Training Specialties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Training specialties are things that animals must be taught or trained to do. This usually means being taught by humans, but sometimes wild animals are taught by other animals of the same type.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Arts:} While very few animals actually create works of art, many birds will use the Art specialty to sing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Block:} Sometimes an animal will have a tough enough hide or shell to be able to use the Block specialty. This can also be used by animals that are actually wearing some kind of armor, from horse barding to spiked collars. The animal can add the shell or armor\u8217's Armor Die to its Block pool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Guard (Initiative):} For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can Interpose itself to prevent a creature from entering its area. For 2 Initiative Points, the animal can make a Lunge, Brawl, or Feint attack against a creature that enters its area. The animal can\u8217't spend its Initiative Points on anything else.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Husbandry:} This specialty is primarily possessed by working animals, such as dogs that herd sheep or oxen that pull plows.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Larceny:} Only a very few animals, such as ravens, can actually use Larceny to steal objects. Naturally, animals can\u8217't make use of the black market.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Perceive:} This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on as an Item Die.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Scale\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Instead of a Competency Die, animals have a Scale Die that relates to how large they are. Scale also determines the yield limit and wound limit for the animal. For yield limits, \u8220"half Ferocity\u8221" means \u8220"half of the die size\u8221", and \u8220"Ferocity\u8221" means \u8220"the die size.\u8221"\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx914\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1828\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3657\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scale\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scale Die\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Yield Limit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wound Limit\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pocket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 (Dead)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 + half Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 (Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Companion\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 + half Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Human\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 + half Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mount\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 + Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mammoth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 + Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 (Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx914\cellx1828\cellx3657\cellx8637
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Behemoth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7 + twice Ferocity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 (Drop 0, Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Scale of Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pocket scale:} This is the smallest category of animal \u8211- one that could be carried in a pocket. Examples include a rat, a songbird, or a tarantula.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pet scale:} A pet-scale animal is around the size of a housecat or a small dog. Too big for a pocket, it can still be carried in one hand. Some examples are a trained parrot, a rooster, or a rabbit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Companion scale:} A companion-scale animal isn\u8217't quite as large as a human, but rather about the size of a medium to large dog. It takes both hands or arms to carry a companion-scale animal. Examples include a goat, a hunting dog, or a venomous snake.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Human scale:} Human-scale animals are approximately the size and weight of an adult human being. Some examples are a war dog, a ram, or a constrictor snake.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mount scale:} Animals that are large enough to be ridden by a single human, or perhaps two or three with a tight squeeze, are mount scale. Examples include a warhorse, a bear, or a cow.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mammoth scale:} Even larger than mount scale, mammoth-scale animals include orca, hordes, and elephants. They take up pretty much a normal-sized room.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Behemoth scale:} The largest of animals are behemoth scale. There are few of these left since the days of dragons (or dinosaurs; nobody\u8217's quite sure which it is). The most notable examples of behemoth-scale animals are found in the oceans \u8211- such as a great whale or a giant squid.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Hordes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A horde is a swarm or pack of similar animals that work as one unit for game purposes. If 300 rats flood out into the sewers, you don\u8217't really want to make individual rolls for all of them whenever they attack or defend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A horde has an additional Attribute, called Horde. This is a measure of the horde\u8217's consistency and cooperation. All Horde attributes start at D12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The horde uses its Horde attribute as a Bonus Die in all of its die pools. However, when the horde takes wounds, the Horde die decreases to a D10, a D8, a D6, a D0, and then disperses. This replaces the normal Drop/Dying/Dead effects of wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most hordes are mammoth scale, although hordes of larger animals (such as sharks) might be behemoth scale, and smaller hordes such as a swarm of honeybees could be merely mount scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Other Animal Qualities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many of the game qualities of animals are similar to those of human characters. These are some of the ways they differ.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Movement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A human can Walk 1 area, or Run 2 areas. Some animals are faster than this, and some are slower. The Walk and Run qualities tell you how many areas the animal can move using each type of action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some animals have special types of movement that humans can\u8217't do, such as flying, swimming, or climbing. These allow an animal to move between Areas in ways that most humans can\u8217't.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Senses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many animals have superior senses to humans; these are shown by the Senses quality. When using the specific type of sense, the animal can add that die on as an Item Die to Perceive rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, animals can use their best Attribute for calculating their Perceive pools, as Perceive is associated with Instinct, Ferocity, and Training.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Weapons and Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Whether an animal has built-in weapons or armor \u8211- such as sharp teeth or a hard carapace \u8211- or is wearing an actual weapon or armor \u8211- barding, a spiked collar, and so on \u8211- it works the same way: the Item Die can be added to whatever skills are specified.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Maneuvers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Animals don\u8217't gain style points. They don\u8217't need them, so don\u8217't spend any of their success points to buy style points. They don\u8217't even know any style maneuvers anyway.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Instead they have conditional maneuvers that just happen whenever the condition is fulfilled.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, a great shark has the following maneuver: Blood in the Water (when attacking a target with at least 1 wound, add Perceive +1D12 to Lunge). This happens whenever it attacks a wounded target. No style points, no limited uses \u8211- just whenever the condition applies, it comes into play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Impetus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Animals don\u8217't have passions. They\u8217're just animals, and concepts like Justice or Faith don\u8217't really mean much to them. Instead, they have an Impetus \u8211- or maybe more than one Impetus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are the urges that drive an animal to action, much as passions do, but on a much more primal level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Impetus types include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Curiosity:} The animal just wants to know what\u8217's going on over there, or across the way, or what\u8217's behind the door. And it\u8217's not like Curiosity ever killed any animals, right?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hunger:} All animals are concerned with eating, but those with a Hunger Impetus will prioritize food and eating over nearly every other activity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Loyalty: }An animal with a Loyalty Impetus is a faithful companion to a human, usually its trainer or owner. They\u8217're a human\u8217's best friend.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Obedience:} A domesticated animal with the Obedience Impetus follows commands given to it. Not because it even likes the person giving the commands, but rather because it\u8217's that well trained.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pack:} The Pack Impetus represents those animals that stick together as a group, usually in some kind of hierarchy or family units.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Predatory: }A Predatory animal loves to hunt. Not just because it needs food, but because it\u8217's actually a vicious hunter that likes to track down its prey.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Survival: }This is the most basic Impetus: the animal wants to stay alive. It will take any action necessary to do so, with the only exception being if it has a higher rated Impetus of another kind.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Territory:} A territorial animal will likely attack, or at least attempt to frighten off, other creatures that come within its territory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use Impetus as you would use Passions \u8211- an animal can use each Impetus it possesses once in a story, and then it loses that specific Impetus. You can only use an Impetus if the animal\u8217's actions are directly related to that Impetus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if an animal has a Survival (D6) Impetus, you can add that Bonus Die once to a Dodge pool or other defensive roll. A Predatory Impetus could be used for tracking or spotting something, an Obedience Impetus for staying alert, or a Curiosity Impetus for staying hidden while investigating some shiny new thing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Common Animals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are some of the animals that players may encounter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Cat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Pet-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Fight +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area, Climb 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas, Climb 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D8), Explore +1 (2D8), Feint +1 (2D8), Perceive (1D8+1D6), Prowl +1 (2D8)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Brawl (1D6), Inspire (1D6), Lunge (1D6), Riposte +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Curiosity (D8), Territory (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is your standard housecat or alleycat. It purrs when it\u8217's happy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dog, common\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Companion-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D6, Training D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Flee +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} Walk 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D6), Explore +1 (2D6), Perceive (2D6), Prowl +1 (2D6)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bite:} Lunge +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a typical, average dog. Not too big, not too small; they make decent watchdogs or hunting dogs. Its bark is probably worse than its bite.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dog, companion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Pet-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D0, Training D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D6), Explore +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Perceive (1D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bite:} Lunge +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A companion dog is one that\u8217's been bred to be small and cute, rather than big and fierce. These are most popular among nobles.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Dog, guard\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Companion-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 4\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge (1D6), Explore +2 (3D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Brawl +1 (2D8), Inspire +1 (2D8), Lunge+ +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block (1D10+1D6), Perceive +2 (3D10+1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D8, Hearing +1D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bite:} Lunge +1D6, +++: Knockdown\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Spiked Collar:} Block +1D6, +++++: Inflict 1 Wound\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Obedience (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A guard dog is a larger canine that\u8217's been trained not just to make noise, but to attack those who come near the territory it guards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Falcon, trained\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Pet-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 0 Areas, Fly 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 1 Area, Fly 4 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D8), Explore +1 (2D8), Prowl +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Perceive +2 (4D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Vision +1D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Beak:} Lunge +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Obedience (D8), Predatory (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Falconers train these birds to hunt, and it\u8217's become quite the hobby of the well-to-do.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Horde of Rats\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mammoth-scale horde}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D8, Ferocity D8, Training D0, Horde D12\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 14\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 5 (Horde D10, D8, D6, D0, Dispersed)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Flee (Horde + 1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 0 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 1 Area, Climb 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge (Horde + 1D8), Perceive (Horde + 2D8), Prowl +1 (Horde + 2D8)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Brawl (Horde + 1D8), Lunge (Horde + 2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block (Horde)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bites:} Lunge +1D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Hunger (D8), Pack (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A single rat isn\u8217't a big threat. A horde of rats that can fill an entire room? That\u8217's a different story. Usually rats will flee at the first sign of danger, but if they get hungry enough they can tear a person to shreds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Draft horse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mount-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D0, Ferocity D0, Training D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge (0)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block (1D6), Husbandry +1 (2D6), Perceive (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Hooves:} Lunge +1D8\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Draft horses are used on farms to pull plows or wagons. They are large and not very fast, but can be quite sturdy. Some of them even look vaguely yellow.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Riding horse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mount-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D6, Training D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 3 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block (1D8), Perceive (1D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Hooves:} Lunge +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Obedience (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a standard, fast horse favored by city folk. It\u8217's not particularly good in a fight, but it can usually get you somewhere quickly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Warhorse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mount-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect +1 (2D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 3 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge (1D6), Explore (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Inspire +1 (2D8), Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block +1 (2D10+1D8), Husbandry (1D10), Perceive (1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Barding:} Block +1d8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Hooves:} Lunge +1D6, +++: Knockdown\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Maneuver:} Trample (when attacking a smaller scale creature with hooves, add Scale +1D10 to Lunge)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Obedience (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A warhorse is specifically trained for battle. It usually will wear barding (horse armor) and is popular among all soldiers, but primarily used by the cavalry or by officers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Parrot, trained\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Pet-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D0, Training D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Protect +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 0 Areas, Fly 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 1 Area, Fly 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D6), Feint +1 (2D6), Perceive +1 (3D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Arts +1 (2D6), Larceny +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Vision +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Maneuver:} Distraction (when mimicking a sound, add Arts +1D6 to Feint)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Loyalty (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Pirates love these things. Originally from the jungle, they can be trained to imitate human voices.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Rat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Pocket-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 1 (Dead)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Fight (1D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area, Climb 1 Area, Swim 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas, Climb 2 Areas, Swim 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D8), Perceive (1D8+1D6), Prowl +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Bite:} Feint +1D6, ++++: Inflict 1 Wound\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Hunger (D8), Survival (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Here\u8217's that single rat by itself. You probably won\u8217't get hurt by it. Just pray it\u8217's not carrying some dreadful plague\u8230?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Shark, great\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mount-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D8, Ferocity D12, Training D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 12\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Fight +1 (2D12)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 0 Areas, Swim 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 0 Areas, Swim 3 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D8), Prowl +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Inspire +1 (2D12), Lunge (2D12+1D10), Perceive (1D12+1D10)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Training:} Block (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Teeth:} Lunge +1D10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Rough Hide:} Block +2D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Maneuver:} Blood in the Water (when attacking a target with at least 1 wound, add Perceive +1D12 to Lunge)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Predatory (D8), Hunger (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Huge, hungry sharks are a great reason to stay out of the ocean. Many sailors have met a grisly fate when falling overboard, especially if they\u8217're already wounded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Snake, venomous\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Companion-scale animal}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Attributes:} Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Yield Limit:} 4\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wound Limit:} 2 (Drop 1, Dying)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Initiative:} Fight +1 (2D8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Walk:} 1 Area\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Run:} 2 Areas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Instinct:} Dodge +1 (2D6), Feint +1 (3D6), Prowl +1 (2D6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Ferocity:} Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Perceive +1 (3D8), Riposte +2 (3D8+1D6)\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Senses:} Smell +1D8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fangs:} Lunge, Feint, Riposte +1D6, +++: Inflict 1 Wound\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Impetus:} Territory (D6)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is a pretty scary snake. You really don\u8217't want to be bit by it.\par}

