# Weapons {.cbreakbefore}

While *The Queen's Cavaliers* is not entirely focused around combat,
it's still a swashbuckling game -- so swords, muskets, and cannons play
a role in the stories being told.

In game terms, there are three broad categories that weapons fall into:
dueling, aimed, and explosive.

**Dueling Weapon:** A weapon that can be used in close-quarters combat
with one or more of the Dueling (Lunge), Dueling (Riposte), Dueling
(Feint), or Defense (Parry) specialties. Examples are swords, knives,
quarterstaves, and pikes.

**Aimed Weapon:** A weapon that can be used at range with the Military
(Aim) specialty. These include crossbows, muskets, pistols, and some
thrown weapons.

**Explosive Weapon:** Unlike some aimed weapons which also use
blackpowder, such as flintlock pistols or muskets, aiming an explosive
weapon isn't the problem. It's preventing yourself from blowing up in
the process. To make an attack with explosives, you use the Science
(Blackpowder) specialty. This category includes cannons, grenades, and
bombs.

::::::::::::: sidebar ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:# Free Starting Weapon

When you create your character for *The Queen's Cavaliers*, you get a
free weapon in addition to any granted by your classes and any
additional weapons you might also buy. If you don't want a free weapon,
you can instead take a +1D6 Barter die.

You can pick from the following basic weapons:

 - **Cutlass** (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)
 - **Dagger** (Knife +1D6, Either Hand)
 - **Flintlock Pistol** (Pistol +1D6, Either Hand)
 - **Rapier** (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)
 - **Sabre** (Sword +1D6, Main Hand, Cavalry)
 - **Smallsword** (Sword +1D6, Either Hand)
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Weapon Qualities

There are four qualities possessed by all weapons: the type of Weapon
Prowess needed to use it, the Weapon Die that can be added as an Item
Die to your dice pools, the number of Hands you need to use to attack
effectively with one, and the Specialties with which that weapon can be
used. Some weapons also possess Success Table Additions which give you
additional ways to spend success points when making certain kinds of
rolls with the weapon.

**Weapon Prowess:** Weapon Prowess is your knowledge of the basics of
how to attack and defend with that weapon. There are nine types of
Weapon Prowess: bow, cudgel, knife, musket, net, pistol, polearm, sword,
and whip. All player characters in *The Queen's Cavaliers* automatically
have Knife Prowess.

**Weapon Die:** You can add the Weapon Die to a Dice Pool as an Item Die
if you have the appropriate prowess for the weapon. If you lack prowess
in a weapon, you can still use the weapon -- you just don't get to add
the Weapon Die to your pool.

**Hands:** Some weapons can be used freely in either hand, others
require two hands to use, and some are just intended for main-hand use.
These are represented by the following weapon qualities:

 - **Main Hand:** This weapon can be used in one hand. You can have
    another weapon in your other hand, but it must be usable in Either
    Hand. 
  - **Either Hand:** This weapon also requires only one hand to use, but
    unlike a Main Hand weapon, you can wield one in each hand (known as
    "dual wielding") or as a secondary weapon with a Main Hand weapon in
    your primary hand.
  - **Both Hands:** You need both hands to use this weapon.

**Scale:** The scale of a weapon depends on the number of hands
required to use it. Unless stated otherwise, Main Hand weapons are
considered handheld scale, Either Hand weapons are pocket scale, and
Both Hand weapons are portable scale.

**Specialties:** These qualities list the specific specialties that can
be used with that weapon. If a specialty isn't listed, it's up to the MJ
whether it's possible to use the weapon that way, and what kind of Drop
penalty you'll receive; for example, using Parry with a musket or Aim
with a rapier could have pretty heavy penalties -- Drop 2 for the
musket, Drop 4 for the rapier.

  - **Aim:** Any attack with handheld weapons made at range uses the Aim
    specialty, from throwing a knife to firing a musket. If you have
    prowess in the weapon you're using, you can add its Weapon Die to
    your Aim roll as an Item Die.

  - **Block:** Defense (Block) allows the use of armor and general
    toughness to throw off the effects of an attack. It can be used to
    negate attacks from either Dueling or Aimed weapons. You add your
    armor's Armor Die to your Block roll as an Item Die if you have
    Armor Prowess in that item.

  - **Brawl:** Only a few Dueling weapons can be used as part of a
    Military (Brawl) attack or defense; Brawl usually doesn't use an
    Item Die of any kind. Brawl can be used to inflict Yield, to disarm
    or knock down an opponent, or to defend against a Brawl attack.

  - **Feint:** The primary use of Dueling (Feint) is to build Advantage
    during a fight through tricky maneuvering or a false attack to draw
    the your opponent off-guard. It can also inflict Yield or trigger a
    Riposte. If you have prowess in the weapon you're using, you can add
    its Weapon Die to your Riposte roll as an Item Die, although you can
    perform a Feint without a weapon also.

  - **Lunge:** A Lunge is a straightforward attack against an opponent
    using a Dueling weapon, usually by stabbing, chopping, slashing, or
    bashing. It's the best way to inflict either Yield or Wounds on your
    target. If you have prowess in the weapon you're using, add its
    Weapon Die to your Lunge roll as an Item Die.

  - **Parry:** This specialty of the Defense skill can be used to negate
    incoming attacks from Dueling weapons, and if possible, trigger a
    Riposte. You need to have a weapon, improvised or otherwise, in your
    hand to attempt a Parry. If you have prowess in that weapon, add its
    Weapon Die to your Parry roll as an Item Die.

  - **Riposte:** Dueling (Riposte) is a triggered Dueling attack
    that you can use by spending success points from another specialty
    -- either Defense (Parry) or Dueling (Feint). A successful Riposte
    can inflict Yield or Wounds, or decrease your opponent's Advantage.
    The Defense (Parry) specialty cannot be used to defend against a
    Riposte. If you have prowess in the weapon you're using, you can add
    its Weapon Die to your Riposte roll as an Item Die.

**Success Table Additions:** Some weapons have additions to the success
tables for specific specialties, such as Knockdown or additional damage.
These are represented by the [+] notation for success points, such as
Lunge ([+][+][+]: Unhorse).
